A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away...


STAR WARS: EPISODE VI
RETURN OF THE JEDI



By: LAWRENCE KASDAN & GEORGE LUCAS

Revised Third Draft

Last Revision
JANUARY 4, 1982

Special Edition Scenes
FEBRUARY, 1997

FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY




A vast sea of stars serves as the backdrop for the main
title. War drums echo through the heavens as a rollup 
slowly crawls into infinity.


Luke Skywalker has returned to his home planet of Tatooine in an attempt to rescue his friend Han Solo from the clutches of the vile gangster Jabba the Hutt.

Little does Luke know that the GALACTIC EMPIRE has secretly begun construction on a new armored space station even more powerful than the first dreaded Death Star.

When completed, this ultimate weapon will spell certain doom for the small band of Rebels struggling to restore freedom to the galaxy...


PAN DOWN to reveal a monstrous half-completed Death Star, its
massive superstructure curling away from the completed section
like the arms of a giant octopus. Beyond, in benevolent contrast,
floats the small, green moon of ENDOR.

An Imperial Star Destroyer moves overhead toward the massive
armored space station, followed by two zipping TIE fighters. A
small Imperial shuttle rockets from the main bay of the ship and
hustles toward the Death Star.

INTERIOR: IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT

The shuttle captain makes contact with the Death Star.

SHUTTLE CAPTAIN: Command station, this is ST 321. Code
Clearance Blue. We're starting our approach. Deactivate 
the security shield.

DEATH STAR CONTROLLER: (filtered VO) The security deflector 
shield will be deactivated when we have confirmation of your 
code transmission. Stand by... You are clear to proceed.

SHUTTLE CAPTAIN: We're starting our approach.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Operators move about among the control panels. A SHIELD OPERATOR
hits switches beside a large screen, on which is a display of the
Death Star, the moon Endor, and a bright web delineating the
invisible deflector shield.

A control officer rushes over to the shield operator.

OFFICER: Inform the commander that Lord Vader's
shuttle has arrived.

OPERATOR: Yes, sir.

The control officer moves to a view port and watches as the
Imperial shuttle lands in the massive docking bay. A squad of
Imperial stormtroopers moves into formation before the craft.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR - MAIN DOCKING BAY

The DEATH STAR COMMANDER, MOFF JERJERROD, a tall, confident
technocrat, strides through the assembled troops to the base of
the shuttle ramp. The troops snap to attention; many are uneasy
about the new arrival. But the Death Star commander stands
arrogantly tall.

The exit hatch of the shuttle opens with a WHOOSH, revealing only
darkness. Then, heavy FOOTSTEPS AND MECHANICAL BREATHING. From
this black void appears DARTH VADER, LORD OF THE SITH. Vader
looks over the assemblage as he walks down the ramp.

JERJERROD: Lord Vader, this is an unexpected pleasure.
We're honored by your presence.

VADER: You may dispense with the pleasantries,
Commander. I'm here to put you back on schedule.

The commander turns ashen and begins to shake.

JERJERROD: I assure you, Lord Vader, my men are working
as fast as they can.

VADER: Perhaps I can find new ways to motivate 
them.

JERJERROD: I tell you, this station will be operational
as planned.

VADER: The Emperor does not share your optimistic 
appraisal of the situation.

JERJERROD: But he asks the impossible. I need more men.

VADER: Then perhaps you can tell him when he arrives.

JERJERROD: (aghast) The Emperor's coming here?

VADER: That is correct, Commander. And he is most
displeased with your apparent lack of progress.

JERJERROD: We shall double our efforts.

VADER: I hope so, Commander, for your sake. The
Emperor is not as forgiving as I am.

EXTERIOR: ROAD TO JABBA'S PALACE - TATOOINE

A lonely, windswept road meanders through the desolate Tatooine
terrain. We HEAR a familiar BEEPING and a distinctive reply
before catching sight of ARTOO-DETOO and SEE-THREEPIO, making
their way along the road toward the ominous palace of Jabba the
Hutt.

THREEPIO: Of course I'm worried. And you should be, too. 
Lando Calrissian and poor Chewbacca never returned from 
this awful place.

Artoo whistles timidly.

THREEPIO: Don't be so sure. If I told you half the things 
I've heard about this Jabba the Hutt, You'd probably 
short-circuit.

The two droids fearfully approach the massive gate to the palace.

THREEPIO: Artoo, are you sure this is the right place?
I better knock, I suppose.

EXTERIOR: JABBA'S PALACE - GATE

Threepio looks around for some kind of signaling device, then
timidly knocks on the iron door.

THREEPIO: (instantly) There doesn't seem to be anyone 
there. Let's go back and tell Master Luke.

A small hatch in the middle of the door opens and a spidery
mechanical arm, with a large electronic eyeball on the end, pops
out and inspects the two droids.

STRANGE VOICE: Tee chuta hhat yudd!

THREEPIO: Goodness gracious me!

Threepio points to Artoo, then to himself.

THREEPIO: Artoo Detoowha bo Seethreepiowha ey toota odd
mischka Jabba du Hutt.

The eye looks from one robot to the other, there is a laugh then
the eye zips back into the door. The hatch slams shut. Artoo
beeps his concern.

THREEPIO:  I don't think they're going to let us in,
Artoo. We'd better go.

Artoo beeps his reluctance as Threepio turns to leave. Suddenly
the massive door starts to rise with a horrific metallic SCREECH.
The robots turn back and face an endless black cavity. The droids
look at one another, afraid to enter.

Artoo starts forward into the gloom. Threepio rushes after his
stubby companion. The door lowers noisily behind them.

THREEPIO: Artoo, wait. Oh, dear! Artoo. Artoo, I really
don't think we should rush into all this.

Artoo continues down the corridor, with Threepio following.

THREEPIO: Oh, Artoo!  Artoo, wait for me!

INTERIOR: JABBA'S PALACE - HALLWAY

The door slams shut with a loud crash that echoes throughout the
dark passageway. The frightened robots are met by two giant,
green GAMORREAN GUARDS, who fall in behind them. Threepio glances
quickly back at the two lumbering brutes, then back to Artoo. One
guard grunts an order. Artoo beeps nervously.

THREEPIO: Just you deliver Master Luke's message and
get us out of here. Oh my! Oh! Oh, no.

Walking toward them out of the darkness is BIB FORTUNA, a
humanlike alien with long tentacles protruding from his skull.

BIB: Die Wanna Wanga!

THREEPIO: Oh, my! Die Wanna Wauaga. We -- we bring a
message to your master, Jabba the Hutt.

Artoo lets out a series of quick beeps.

THREEPIO: (cont) ...and a gift. (thinks a moment, then 
to Artoo) Gift, what gift?

Bib shakes his head negatively.

BIB: Nee Jabba no badda. Me chaade su goodie.

Bib holds out his hand toward Artoo and the tiny droid backs up a
bit, letting out a protesting array of squeaks. Threepio turns to
the strange-looking alien.

THREEPIO: He says that our instructions are to give it
only to Jabba himself.

Bib thinks about this for a moment.

THREEPIO: I'm terribly sorry. I'm afraid he's ever so
stubborn about these sort of things.

Bib gestures for the droids to follow.

BIB: Nudd Chaa.

The droids follow the tall, tentacled alien into the darkness,
trailed by the two guards.

THREEPIO: Artoo, I have a bad feeling about this.

INTERIOR: JABBA'S THRONE ROOM

The throne room is filled with the vilest, most grotesque
CREATURES ever conceived in the universe. Artoo and Threepio seem
very small as they pause in the doorway to the dimly lit chamber.
Light shafts partially illuminate the drunken courtiers as Bib
Fortuna crosses the room to the platform upon which rests the
leader of this nauseating crowd: JABBA THE HUTT. The monarch of
the galactic underworld is a repulsive blob of bloated fat with a
maniacal grin. Chained to the horrible creature is the beautiful
alien female dancer named OOLA. At the foot of the dais sits an
obnoxious birdlike creature, SALACIOUS CRUMB. Bib whispers
something in the slobbering degenerate's ear. Jabba laughs
horribly, at the two terrified droids before him. Threepio bows
politely.

THREEPIO: Good morning.

JABBA: Bo Shuda!

The robots jump forward to stand before the repulsive, loose-
skinned villain.

THREEPIO: The message, Artoo, the message.

Artoo whistles, and a beam of light projects from his domed head,
creating a HOLOGRAM of LUKE on the floor. The image grows to over
ten feet tall, and the young Jedi towers over the space
gangsters.

LUKE: Greetings, Exalted One. Allow me to introduce
myself. I am Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight and friend 
to Captain Solo. I know that you are powerful, mighty 
Jabba, and that your anger with Solo must be equally 
powerful. I seek anaudience with Your Greatness to 
bargain for Solo's life. (Jabba's crowd laughs) With 
your wisdom, I'm sure that we can work out an 
arrangement which will be mutually beneficial and 
enable us to avoid any unpleasant confrontation. As a 
token of my goodwill, I present to you a gift: these 
two droids.

Threepio is startled by this announcement.

THREEPIO: What did he say?

LUKE: (cont) ...Both are hardworking and will serve you
well.

THREEPIO: This can't be! Artoo, you're playing the
wrong message.

Luke's hologram disappears.

Jabba laughs while Bib speaks to him in Huttese.

JABBA: (in Huttese subtitled) There will be no bargain.

THREEPIO: We're doomed.

JABBA: (in Huttese subtitled) I will not give up my 
favorite decoration. I like Captain Solo where he is.

Jabba laughs hideously and looks toward an alcove beside the
throne. Hanging high, flat against the wall, exactly as we saw
him last, is a carbonized HAN SOLO.

THREEPIO: Artoo, look! Captain Solo. And he's still
frozen in carbonite.

INTERIOR: DUNGEON CORRIDOR

One of Jabba's Gamorrean guards marches Artoo and Threepio down a
dank, shadowy passageway lined with holding cells. The cries of
unspeakable creatures bounce off the cold stone walls.
Occasionally a repulsive arm or tentacle grabs through the bars
at the hapless droids. Artoo beeps pitifully.

THREEPIO:  What could possibly have come over Master
Luke. Is it something I did? He never expressed any 
unhappiness with my work. Oh! Oh! Hold it! Ohh!

A large tentacle wraps around Threepio's neck. He manages to
break free, and they move on to a door at the end of the
corridor.

INTERIOR: BOILER ROOM

The door slides open, revealing a room filled with steam and
noisy machinery. The guard motions them into the boiler room,
where they are met by a tall, thin humanlike robot named EV-9D9
(EVE-NINEDENINE). Behind the robot can be seen a torture rack
pulling the legs off a screaming baby work droid. A second
power droid is upside down.  As smoking branding irons are
pressed into his feet, the stubby robot lets out an agonized
electronic scream. Artoo and Threepio cringe as the guard grunts
to EV-9D9.

NINEDENINE: Ah, good. New acquisitions. You are a
protocol droid, are you not?

THREEPIO: I am See-Threepio, human-cy...

NINEDENINE: Yes or no will do.

THREEPIO: Oh. Well, yes.

NINEDENINE: How many languages do you speak?

THREEPIO: I am fluent in over six million forms of
communication, and can readily...

NINEDENINE: Splendid! We have been without an interpreter
since our master got angry with our last protocol droid 
and disintegrated him.

THREEPIO: Disintegrated?

NINEDENINE: (to a Gamorrean guard) Guard! This protocol 
droid might be useful. Fit him with a restraining bolt 
and take him back to His Excellency's main audience
chamber.

The guard shoves Threepio toward the door.

THREEPIO: (disappearing) Artoo, don't leave me! Ohhh!

Artoo lets out a plaintive cry as the door closes. Then he beeps
angrily.

NINEDENINE: You're a feisty little one, but you'll soon
learn some respect. I have need for you on the master's 
Sail Barge. And I think you'll fit in nicely.

The poor work droid in the background lets out another tortured
electronic scream.

INTERIOR: JABBA'S THRONE ROOM

The court of Jabba the Hutt is in the midst of a drunken, raucous
party. Sloppy, smelly monsters cheer and make rude noises as Oola
and a fat, six-breasted female dancer perform in front of Jabba's
throne. Jabba's alien band plays a wildly rhythmic tune on reeds,
drums, and other exotic instruments. The Hutt rocks and swings in
time with the music and toys with Oola's leash. The song comes to a
close and the audience applauds.

JABBA: Ah! Do that again!

BAND MEMBERS: One, two, three! Go, daddy, go! One, two,
three!

The music swells. Oola and the fat female dancer perform as the alien
band rocks. Jabba leers at the dancers and with a lustful gleam in
his eye beckons Oola to come and sit with him. She stops dancing and
backs away, shaking her head. Jabba gets angry and points to a spot
next to him. Oola continues to protest and pull back against the tout
leash.

JABBA: Da Eitha!

The lovely alien shakes her head again and screams.

OOLA: Na Chuba negatorie Na! Na! Natoota...

Jabba is furious and pulls her toward him, tugging on the chain.

JABBA: Boscka!

He pushes a button and, before the dancer can flee, a trap door
in the floor springs open and swallows her up. As the door snaps
shut, a muffled growl is followed by a hideous scream. Jabba and
his monstrous friends laugh hysterically and several revelers
hurry over to watch her fate through a grate. Oola tumbles down a
chute and sprawls on the floor of the Rancor cage.

Threepio cringes and glances wistfully at the carbonite form of
Han Solo, but is immediately distracted by a gunshot offscreen.
An unnatural quiet sweeps the boisterous gathering. On the far
side of the room, the crush of debauchers moves aside to allow
the approach of two guards followed by BOUSHH, an oddly cloaked
bounty hunter, leading his captive, Han Solo's copilot, CHEWBACCA
THE WOOKIEE.

Bib takes his place next to his disgusting master, and whispers
into his ear, pointing at Chewbacca and the bounty hunter. Jabba
listens intently, then the bounty hunter bows before the gangster
and speaks a greeting in a strange, electronically processed
tongue (Ubese).

BOUSHH: (in Ubese subtitled) I have come for the 
bounty on this Wookiee.

THREEPIO: Oh, no! Chewbacca!

JABBA: (in Huttese subtitled) At last we have the 
mighty Chewbacca.

Jabba lets out a loud, long, blood-curdling laugh and turns to
Threepio, waving him closer. The reluctant droid obeys.

THREEPIO: Oh, uh, yes, uh, I am here, Your
Worshipfulness. Uh... yes!

Jabba continues speaking, as Threepio nervously translates.
Boushh listens, studying the dangerous creatures around the room.
He notices BOBA FETT standing near the door.

THREEPIO: Oh. The illustrious Jabba bids you welcome
and will gladly pay you the reward of twenty-five 
thousand.

BOUSHH: (in Ubese subtitled) I want fifty thousand. 
No less.

Jabba immediately flies into a rage, knocking the golden droid
off the raised throne into a clattering heap on the floor. Boushh
adjusts his weapon as Jabba raves in Huttese and Threepio
struggles back onto the throne. The disheveled droid tries to
compose himself.

THREEPIO: Uh, oh... but what, what did I say? (to 
Boushh) Uh, the mighty Jabba asks why he must pay
fifty thousand.

The bounty hunter holds up a small silver ball in his hand.
Threepio looks at it, then looks at Jabba, then back to the
bounty hunter. The droid is very nervous and Jabba is getting
very impatient.

THREEPIO: Because he's holding a thermal detonator.

The guards instantly back away, as do most of the other monsters
in the room. Jabba stares at the silver ball, which begins to
glow in the bounty hunter's hand. The room has fallen into a
tense hush. Jabba stares at the bounty hunter malevolently until
a sly grin creeps across his vast mouth and he begins to laugh.

JABBA: (in Huttese subtitled) This bounty hunter is 
my kind of scum. Fearless and inventive.

Jabba continues.

THREEPIO: Jabba offers the sum of thirty-five. And I
suggest you take it.

Bib and the other monsters study the bounty hunter and wait for
his reaction. Boushh releases a switch on the thermal detonator
and it goes dead.

BOUSHH: Zeebuss.

THREEPIO: He agrees!

The raucous crowd of monsters erupts in a symphony of cheers and
applause as the party returns to its full noisy pitch. Chewbacca
growls. As he is led away we spot LANDO CALRISSIAN, disguised as
a skiff guard in a partial face mask. The band starts up and
dancing girls take the center of the floor, to the hoots of the
loudly appreciative creatures.

Boushh leans against a column with gunfighter cool and surveys
the scene, his gaze stopping only when it connects with a glare
from across the room. Boba Fett is watching him. Boushh shifts
slightly, cradling his weapon lovingly. Boba Fett shifts with
equally ominous arrogance.

INTERIOR: DUNGEON CORRIDOR AND CELL

Gamorrean guards lead Chewie down the same hallway we saw before.
When a tentacle reaches out at the Wookiee, Chewie's ferocious
ROAR echoes against the walls and the tentacle snaps back into
its cell in terror. It takes all the guards to hurl Chewie
roughly into a cell, slamming the door behind him. Chewie lets
out a pathetic howl and bangs on the iron door.

EXTERIOR: JABBA'S PALACE

The palace is sitting in the light of the double sunset. On the
road in front, a large toadlike creature flicks its tongue out
for a desert rodent and burps in satisfaction.

INTERIOR: JABBA'S THRONE ROOM - NIGHT

Silence. The room is deserted, only the awful debris of the alien
celebration giving mute witness to the activity here before.
Several drunk creatures lie unconscious around the room, snoring
loudly.

A shadowy figure moves stealthily among the columns at the
perimeter of the room and is revealed to be Boushh, the bounty
hunter. He picks his way carefully through the snoring, drunken
monsters.

Han Solo, the frozen space pirate, hangs spotlighted on the wall,
his coffin-like case suspended by a force field. The bounty
hunter deactivates the force field by flipping a control switch
to one side of the coffin. The heavy case slowly lowers to the
floor of the alcove.

Boushh steps up to the case, studying Han, then turns to the
controls on the side of the coffin. He activates a series of
switches and, after one last, hesitant look at Han, slides the
decarbonization lever. The case begins to emit a sound as the
hard shell covering the contours of Han's face begins to melt
away. The bounty hunter watches as Han's body is freed of its
metallic coat and his forearms and hands, previously raised in
reflexive protest, drop slackly to his side. His face muscles
relax from their mask of horror. He appears quite dead.

Boushh's ugly helmet leans close to Han's face listening for the
breath of life. Nothing. He waits. Han's eyes pop open with a
start and he begins coughing. The bounty hunter steadies the
staggering newborn.

BOUSHH: Just relax for a moment. You're free of the
carbonite.

Han touches his face with his hand and moans.

BOUSHH: Shhh. You have hibernation sickness.

HAN: I can't see.

BOUSHH: Your eyesight will return in time.

HAN: Where am I?

BOUSHH: Jabba's palace.

HAN: Who are you?

The bounty hunter reaches up and lifts the helmet from his head,
revealing the beautiful face of PRINCESS LEIA.

LEIA: Someone who loves you.

HAN: Leia!

LEIA: I gotta get you out of here.

As Leia helps her weakened lover to stand up, the relative quiet
is pierced by an obscene HUTTESE CACKLE from the other side of
the alcove.

HAN: What's that? I know that laugh.

The curtain on the far side of the alcove opens, revealing Jabba
the Hutt, surrounded by Bib and other aliens. He laughs again,
and his gross cronies join in a cacophony of alien glee.

HAN: Hey, Jabba. Look, Jabba, I was just on my way
to pay you back, but I got a little sidetracked. 
It's not my fault.

Jabba laughs.

JABBA: (in Huttese subtitled) It's too late for 
that, Solo. You may have been a good smuggler, but 
now you're Bantha fodder.

HAN: Look...

JABBA: (cont Huttese subtitled) Take him away!

The guards grab Han and start to lead him away.

HAN: Jabba... I'll pay you triple! You're throwing
away a fortune here. Don't be a fool!

Han is dragged off, as Lando quickly moves forward and attempts
to lead Leia away.

JABBA: (in Huttese subtitled) Bring her to me.

Jabba chuckles as Lando and a second guard drag the beautiful
young princess toward him. Threepio peeks from behind a monster
and quickly turns away in disgust.

LEIA: We have powerful friends. You're gonna regret
this...

JABBA: (in Huttese subtitled) I'm sure.

Inexorably her lovely face moves to within a few inches of
Jabba's ugly blob of a head, and Leia turns away in disgust.

LEIA: Ugh!

THREEPIO: Ohhh, I can't bear to watch.

INTERIOR: DUNGEON CELL

The heavy metal door of the dungeon whines and slowly creaks
open. A guard throws the blinded star captain into the dark cell
and the door slams shut behind him, leaving only a thin sliver of
light from a crack in the door. Han is trying to collect himself
when suddenly a growl is heard from the far side of the cell. He
jumps back against the cell door and listens.

HAN: Chewie? Chewie, is that you?

The shadowy figure lets out a crazy yell and races toward Han,
lifting him off the ground with a big hug that carries them into
the light, revealing Chewie.

HAN: Ah! Chew--Chewie!

The giant Wookiee barks with glee.

HAN: Wait. I can't see, pal. What's goin' on?

Chewie barks an excited blue streak.

HAN: Luke? Luke's crazy. He can't even take care
of himself, much less rescue anybody.

Chewie barks a reply.

HAN: A ...Jedi Knight? I--I'm out of it for a
little while, everybody gets delusions of
grandeur.

Chewie growls insistently. He holds Han to his chest and pets his
head.

HAN: I'm all right, pal. I'm all right.

INTERIOR: MAIN GATE AND HALL - JABBA'S PALACE

Noisily, the main gate lifts to flood the blackness with blinding
LIGHT and reveal the silhouetted figure of LUKE SKYWALKER. He is
clad in a robe similar to Ben's and wears neither pistol nor
laser sword. Luke strides purposefully into the hallway. Two
giant guards move to block Luke's path. Luke halts.

Luke raises his hand and points at the puzzled guards, who
immediately lower their spears and fall back. The young Jedi
lowers his hand and moves on down the hallway.

Bib Fortuna appears out of the gloom. He speaks to Luke as they
approach each other, but Luke doesn't stop and Bib must reverse
his direction and hurry alongside the young Jedi in order to carry
on the conversation. Several other guards fall in behind them in
the darkness.

LUKE: I must speak with Jabba.

Bib answers in Huttese, shaking his head in denial. Luke stops
and stares at Bib; he raises his hand slightly.

LUKE: You will take me to Jabba now!

Bib turns in hypnotic response to Luke's command, and Luke
follows him into the gloom.

LUKE: You serve your master well.

Bib responds.

LUKE: And you will be rewarded.

INTERIOR: JABBA'S THRONE ROOM

Jabba is asleep on his throne, with Leia lying in front of him.
Salacious sits by Jabba's tail, watching it wriggle. Leia is now
dressed in the skimpy costume of a dancing girl; a chain runs
from a manacle/necklace at her throat to her new master, Jabba
the Hutt. Threepio stands behind Jabba as Bib comes up to the
gangster slug.

THREEPIO: At last! Master Luke's come to rescue me.

BIB: Master.

Jabba awakens with a start and Bib continues, in Huttese.

BIB: ...Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight.

JABBA: (in Huttese subtitled) I told you not to admit him.

LUKE: I must be allowed to speak.

BIB: (in Huttese subtitled) He must be allowed to speak.

Jabba, furious, clobbers Bib and shoves him away.

JABBA: (in Huttese subtitled) You weak-minded fool! He's 
using an old Jedi mind trick.

Luke stares hard at Jabba.

LUKE: You will bring Captain Solo and the Wookiee
to me.

JABBA: (in Huttese subtitled) Your mind powers will not 
work on me, boy.

LUKE: Nevertheless, I'm taking Captain Solo and his
friends. You can either profit by this... or be 
destroyed! It's your choice. But I warn you not to 
underestimate my powers.

Jabba's laugh is mean and loud. Threepio attempts to warn Luke
about the pit.

THREEPIO: Master Luke, you're standing on...

JABBA: (in Huttese subtitled) There will be no 
bargain, young Jedi. I shall enjoy watching you die.

Luke reaches out, and a pistol jumps out of a guard's holster and
flies into Luke's hand. The bewildered guard grabs for it as
Jabba raises his hand.

JABBA: Bascka!

The floor suddenly drops away, sending Luke and the hapless guard
into the pit. The pistol goes off, blasting a hole in the
ceiling. Jabba laughs and his courtiers join in. Leia starts
forward but is restrained by a human guard-- Lando, recognizable
behind his mask. She looks at him and he shakes his head "no."

INTERIOR: RANCOR PIT

Luke and the guard have dropped twenty-five feet from a chute
into the dungeonlike cage. Luke gets to his feet as the guard
yells hysterically for help. A crowd gathers up around the edge
of the pit as the door in the side of the pit starts to RUMBLE
open. The guard screams in panic. Luke looks calmly around for a
means of escape.

THREEPIO: Oh, no! The Rancor!

At the side of the pit, an iron door rumbles upward and a giant,
fanged RANCOR emerges. The guard runs to the side of the pit and
tries futilely to scramble to the top. The hideous beast closes
in on him.

The Rancor moves past Luke, and as the guard continues to
scramble, the Rancor picks him up and pops him into its slavering
jaws. A few screams, and the guard is swallowed with a gulp. The
audience cheers and laughs at the guard's fate.

The monster turns and starts for Luke. The young Jedi dashes away
just ahead of the monster's swipe at him, and picks up the long
arm bone of an earlier victim. The monster grabs Luke and brings
him up to his salivating mouth. At the last moment, Luke wedges
the bone in the monster's mouth and is dropped to the floor. The
monster bellows in rage and flails about, hitting the side of the
pit, causing an avalanche.

The monster crushes the bone in its jaws and sees Luke, who
squeezes into a crevice in the pit wall. Luke looks past the
monster to the holding cave beyond. On the far side of the
holding cave is a utility door--if only he can get to it. The
Rancor spots Luke and reaches into the crevice for him. Luke
grabs a large rock and raises it, smashing it down on the
Rancor's finger.

HOLDING TUNNEL - RANCOR PIT

The Rancor lets out a loud howl as Luke makes a run for the
holding cave. He reaches the door and pushes a button to open it.
When he succeeds, he sees a heavy barred gate between him and
safety. Beyond the gate two guards look up from their dinner.
Luke turns to see the monster heading for him, and pulls with all
his might on the gate. The guards move to the gate and start
poking at the young Jedi with spears, laughing.

Luke crouches (against the wall) as the monster starts to reach
for him. Suddenly he notices a main door control panel halfway up
the wall. As the Rancor moves in for the kill, Luke picks up a
skull from the cave floor and hurls it at the panel. The giant
overhead door comes crashing down on the beast's head, squashing
it like a sledgehammer on an egg.

A startled gasp is heard from the stunned court. There's
consternation at this turn of events. Heads look to Jabba, who is
actually turning red with anger. Leia cannot suppress her joy.
Jabba utters harsh commands to his guards and they hurry off.

JABBA: (in Huttese subtitled) Bring me Solo and the 
Wookiee. They will all suffer for this outrage.

INTERIOR: RANCOR PIT

The Rancor KEEPERS have come into the cage and are examining
their dead beast. One of them breaks down and weeps. The other
glares menacingly at Luke, who is unworried. Several guards rush
into the holding tunnel and take Luke away.

INTERIOR: THRONE ROOM

The crowd of creepy courtiers parts as Han and Chewie are brought
into the throne room, and other guards drag Luke up the steps.

LUKE: Han!

HAN: Luke!

LUKE: Are you all right?

HAN: Fine. Together again, huh?

LUKE: Wouldn't miss it.

HAN: How are we doing?

LUKE: The same as always.

HAN: That bad, huh? Where's Leia?

Luke looks to Leia.

LEIA: I'm here.

Threepio is standing behind the grotesque gangster as he strokes
Leia like a pet cat. Several of the guards, including Lando,
bring Luke from the other side of the room. Boba is standing
behind Jabba.

Threepio steps forward and translates for the captives.

THREEPIO: Oh, dear. His High Exaltedness, the great
Jabba the Hutt, has decreed that you are to be 
terminated immediately.

HAN: Good, I hate long waits.

THREEPIO: You will therefore be taken to the Dune Sea
and cast into the pit of Carkoon, the nesting place of 
the all-powerful Sarlacc.

HAN: (to Luke) Doesn't sound so bad.

THREEPIO: In his belly, you will find a new definition
of pain and suffering, as you are slowly digested over 
a thousand years.

HAN: On second thought, let's pass on that, huh?

Chewie barks his agreement.

LUKE: You should have bargained, Jabba. That's the
last mistake you'll ever make.

Jabba cackles evilly at this.

As the guards drag the prisoners from the throne room, a loud
cheer rises from the crowd. Leia and Chewie exchange concerned
looks, but Luke Skywalker, Jedi warrior, cannot suppress a smile.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE DUNE SEA

A herd of wild banthas treks across Tatooine's dunes.

Jabba's huge sail barge moves above the desert surface accompanied 
by two smaller skiffs.

INTERIOR: BARGE OBSERVATION DECK

Jabba's entire retinue is with him, drinking, eating, and
having a good time.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE DUNE SEA

The sail barge and skiffs continue their journey.

INTERIOR: BARGE OBSERVATION DECK

Jabba the Hutt rides like a sultan in the massive antigravity
ship. Leia is watching her friends in the one of the skiffs.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE DUNE SEA - SKIFF

The skiff glides close, revealing Luke, Han, and Chewie -- all 
in bonds -- surrounded by guards, one of whom is Lando in 
disguise.

HAN: I think my eyes are getting better. Instead
of a big dark blur, I see a big light blur.

LUKE: There's nothing to see. I used to live here,
you know.

HAN: You're gonna die here, you know. Convenient.

LUKE: Just stick close to Chewie and Lando. I've
taken care of everything.

HAN: Oh... great!

INTERIOR: BARGE OBSERVATION DECK

The chain attached to Leia's neck is pulled tight and Jabba
tugs the scantily clad princess to him.

JABBA: (in Huttese subtitled) Soon you will learn 
to appreciate me.

Threepio wanders among the Sail Barge aliens, bumping into a
smaller droid serving drinks, spilling them all over the place.
The stubby droid lets out an angry series of beeps and whistles.

THREEPIO: Oh, I'm terribly sor... Artoo! What are you
doing here?

Artoo beeps a quick reply.

THREEPIO: Well, I can see you're serving drinks, but
this place is dangerous. They're going to execute 
Master Luke and, if we're not careful, us too!

Artoo whistles a singsong response.

THREEPIO: Hmm.  I wish I had your confidence.

EXTERIOR: SARLACC PIT

The convoy moves up over a huge sand pit. The Sail Barge stops to
one side of the depression, as does the escort skiff. But the
prisoner's skiff moves out directly over the center and hovers.
At the bottom of the deep cone of sand is a repulsive, mucous-
lined hole with a huge beak protruding from it, surrounded by
thousands of needle-sharp teeth and tentacles. This is the SARLACC.
A plank is extended from the edge of the prisoner's skiff. Guards
release Luke's bonds and shove him out onto the plank above the
Sarlacc's mouth.

EXTERIOR: SAIL BARGE OBSERVATION DECK

Jabba and Leia are now by the rail, watching. Threepio leans
forward and the slobbering villain mumbles something to him. As
Threepio steps up to a comlink, Jabba raises his arm and the
motley array of intergalactic pirates fall silent. Threepio's
voice is amplified across loudspeakers.

THREEPIO: Victims of the almighty Sarlacc: His
Excellency hopes that you will die honorably. But 
should any of you wish to beg for mercy, the great 
Jabba the Hutt will now listen to your pleas.

EXTERIOR: SKIFF

Han steps forward arrogantly and begins to speak.

HAN: Threepio, you tell that slimy piece of...
worm-ridden filth he'll get no such pleasure from 
us. Right?

Chewie growls his agreement.

LUKE: Jabba! This is your last chance. Free us or
die.

Lando moves unobtrusively along the skiff as Luke shoots a quick
look of conspiracy to him.

INTERIOR: SAIL BARGE OBSERVATION DECK

The assembled monsters rock with mocking laughter as Artoo zips
unnoticed up the ramp to the upper deck. Jabba's laughter 
subsides as he speaks into the comlink.

JABBA: (in Huttese subtitled) Move him into 
position.

Jabba makes a thumbs-down gesture. Leia looks worried.

EXTERIOR: BARGE - UPPER DECK

Artoo appears from below and zips over to the rail facing the
pit. Below, in the skiff, Luke is prodded by a guard to the edge
of the plank over the gaping Sarlacc. Luke looks up at Artoo,
then gives a jaunty salute: the signal the little droid has been
waiting for. A flap opens in Artoo's domed head.

JABBA: (in Huttese subtitled) Put him in.

EXTERIOR: SKIFF - PLANK

Luke is prodded and jumps off the plank to the cheers of the
bloodthirsty spectators. But, before anyone can even perceive
what is happening, he spins around and grabs the end of the plank
by his fingertips. The plank bends wildly from his weight and
catapults him skyward. In midair he does a complete flip and
drops down on the end of the plank in the same spot he just
vacated, but facing the skiff. He casually extends an open palm
and -- his lightsaber, which Artoo has sent arcing toward him,
drops into his hand.

With samurai speed, Luke ignites it and attacks the guard who
prodded him off the plank, sending the hapless monster screaming
overboard. The other guards swarm toward Luke. He wades into
them, lightsaber flashing. Lando struggles with another guard at
the back of the skiff.

EXTERIOR: SARLACC PIT

A bewildered guard lands in the soft, sandy slope of the pit, and
begins sliding. He claws desperately as a Sarlacc tentacle grabs
him and pulls him screaming into the viscous mouth.

INTERIOR: SAIL BARGE

Jabba watches this and explodes in rage. He barks commands, and
the guards around him rush off to do his bidding. The scuzzy
creatures watching the action from the window are in an uproar.

EXTERIOR: SKIFF

Luke knocks another guard off the skiff and into the waiting
mouth of the Sarlacc. He starts to untie Chewie's bonds.

LUKE: Easy, Chewie.

At that moment, the deck gunmen on the barge unleash a series of
blasts from a big cannon on the upper deck. Lando is tossed from
the deck of the rocking skiff. He manages to grab a rope, and
dangles desperately above the Sarlacc pit.

LANDO: Whoa! Whoa! Help!

EXTERIOR: UPPER DECK - SAIL BARGE

With two swift strides, the dangerous Boba Fett ignites his
rocket pack, leaps into the air, and flies from the barge down to
the skiff.

EXTERIOR: SKIFF

Boba lands on the skiff and starts to aim his laser gun at Luke,
who has freed Han and Chewie from their bonds. But before Boba
can fire, the young Jedi spins on him, lightsaber sweeping, and
hacks the bounty hunter's gun in half.

Immediately, the skiff takes another direct hit from the barge's
deck gun. Shards of skiff deck fly. Chewie and Han are thrown
against the rail.

HAN: Chewie, you okay? Where is he?

The Wookiee is wounded and he howls in pain.

HAN: I'm okay, pal.

For a moment, Luke is distracted, and in that moment, Boba fires
a cable out of his armored sleeve. Instantly, Luke is wrapped in
a strong cable, his arms pinned against his side, his sword arm
free only from the wrist down.  Luke bends his wrist so the lightsaber
points straight up to reach the wire lasso and cuts through. Luke
shrugs away the cable and stands free.

Another blast from the Barge's deck gun hits near Boba and he is
knocked unconscious to the deck, next to where Lando is hanging.

LANDO: Han! Chewie?

HAN: Lando!

Luke is a little shaken but remains standing as a fusillade
brackets him. The second skiff, loaded with guards firing their
weapons, moves in on Luke fast. Luke leaps toward the incoming
second skiff. The young Jedi leaps into the middle of the second
skiff and begins decimating the guards from their midst.

Chewie, wounded, tries to lift himself as he barks directions to
Han, guiding him toward a spear which has been dropped by one of
the guards. Han searches the deck as Chewie barks directions;
finally he grabs hold of the spear.

Boba Fett, badly shaken, rises from the deck. He looks over at
the other skiff, where Luke is whipping a mass of guards. Boba
raises his arm, and aims his lethal appendage.

Chewie barks desperately at Han.

HAN: Boba Fett?! Boba Fett?! Where?

The space pirate turns around blindly, and the long spear in his
hand whacks squarely in the middle of Boba's rocket pack.

The impact of the swing causes the rocket pack to ignite. Boba
blasts off, flying over the second skiff like a missile, smashing
against the side of the huge Sail Barge and sliding away into the
pit. He screams as his armored body makes its last flight past
Lando and directly into the mucous mouth of the Sarlacc. The
Sarlacc burps. Chewie growls a weak congratulations to Han.

INTERIOR: SAIL BARGE

Leia turns from the spectacle outside, leaps onto Jabba's throne,
and throws the chain that enslaves her over his head around his
bulbous neck. Then she dives off the other side of the throne,
pulling the chain violently in her grasp. Jabba's flaccid neck
contracts beneath the tightening chain. His huge eyes bulge from
their sockets and his scum-coated tongue flops out. The Exalted
Hutt's huge tail spasms through its death throes and then slams
down into final stillness. Leia struggles to free herself of her
bondage.

EXTERIOR: SKIFF

Luke continues to destroy the aliens on the guards' skiff, as Han
extends his spear downward to Lando, who is still dangling
precariously from a rope on the prisoner's skiff.

HAN: Lando, grab it!

LANDO: Lower it!

HAN: I'm trying!

A major hit from the barge deck gun knocks the skiff on its side.
Han and almost everything else on board slides overboard. The
rope breaks, and Lando falls to the side of the Sarlacc pit.
Luckily, Han's foot catches on the skiff railing and he dangles
above Lando and the pit. The wounded Wookiee holds onto the skiff
for dear life as another hit from the deck gun rocks the skiff
violently.

HAN: Whoa! Whoa! Grab me, Chewie! I'm slipping.

Chewie grabs hold of Han's feet, holding him upside down, as Han
extends the spear toward Lando, who is clutching to the side of
the pit.

HAN: Grab it! L--Lando. Grab!

Luke finishes off the last guard on the second skiff. He sees the
deck gun blasting away at his helpless companions. Luke leaps
from the skiff, across a chasm of air, to the sheer metallic side
of the Sail Barge. Barely able to get a fingerhold, he begins a
painful climb up the hull, when suddenly an ax smashes through a
window an inch from his head. With Jedi agility, Luke grasps the
wrist holding the ax and yanks the helpless guard through the broken
window and into the deadly pit.

The injured Chewie is reaching over the rail for the dangling
Han, who is in turn blindly reaching down toward the desperate
Lando. The Baron has stopped his slippage down the sandy slope of
the Sarlacc pit by lying very still. Every time he tries to reach
for Han, the loose sand moves him closer to his final reward.

HAN: Grab it! Almost... You almost got it!

Another blast hits the front of the tilted skiff, causing Lando
to let go of the spear.

LANDO: Hold it! Whoa!

Again Han extends the spear toward Lando.

HAN: Gently now. All... all right. Now easy, easy.
Hold me, Chewie.

Lando screams. One of the Sarlacc's tentacles has wrapped tightly
around his ankle, dragging him down the side of the pit.

HAN: Chewie! Chewie, give me the gun. Don't move,
Lando.

LANDO: No, wait! I thought you were blind!

HAN: It's all right. Trust me. Don't move.

LANDO: All right! A little higher! Just a little
higher!

Han adjusts his aim as Lando lowers his head, and the fuzzy-eyed
pirate fires at the tentacle. Direct hit. The tentacle releases
Lando, and Chewie starts to pull them on board the skiff.

HAN: Chewie, Pull us up! Come on! Okay... up,
Chewie, up!

EXTERIOR: UPPER DECK

The deck gunners have Chewie and the desperate dangling human
chain in their gun sights when something up on deck commands
their attention: Luke, standing before them like a pirate king,
ignites his lightsaber. The deck gunners have barely reached for
their pistols before the young Jedi has demolished them.
Immediately, Luke turns to see two more gunners (who have been
uncovering a giant gun at the end of the barge) racing for him,
firing their laser pistols.

INTERIOR: SAIL BARGE - OBSERVATION DECK

Leia is struggling against her chains in desperation as Artoo
zips through the tumult of confused monsters to the rescue; the
stubby little droid extends a small laser gun and blasts the
chain apart.

LEIA: Come on. We gotta get out of here.

Artoo and Leia race for the exit, passing Threepio, who is
kicking and screaming as Salacious Crumb, the reptilian monkey-
monster picks out one of the golden droid's eyes.

THREEPIO: Not my eyes! Artoo, help! Quickly, Artoo. Oh!
Ohhh! You beast!

Artoo zips over and zaps Salacious, sending him skyward with a
scream, crashing into the rafters as Artoo, Leia, and Threepio
(with his eye dangling from a wire) hurry off.

EXTERIOR: UPPER DECK - SAIL BARGE

Luke is warding off laser blasts with his lightsaber, surrounded
by guards and fighting like a demon. Leia emerges onto the deck
as Luke turns to face another guard.

LUKE: (to Leia) Get the gun! Point it at the deck!

Leia turns toward the barge cannon, climbs on the platform, and
swivels the gun around.

LUKE: Point it at the deck!

A laser blast hits Luke's mechanical hand and he bends over in
pain, but manages to swing his lightsaber upward and take out the
last of the guards. He looks at the wounded hand, which reveals
the mechanism. He flexes the hand; it still works.

Near the rail of the upper deck, Artoo and Threepio steady
themselves as Threepio gets ready to jump. Artoo beeps wildly.

THREEPIO: Artoo, where are we going? I couldn't
possibly jump.

Artoo butts the golden droid over the edge and steps off himself,
tumbling toward the sand.

Luke runs along the empty deck toward Leia and the barge gun,
which she has brought around to point down at the deck.

LUKE: Come on!

Luke has hold on one of the rigging ropes from the mast. He
gathers Leia in his other arm and kicks the trigger of the deck
gun. The gun explodes into the deck as Luke and Leia swing out
toward the skiff.

EXTERIOR: SKIFF

Han leans panting against the rail as Chewie helps Lando onto the
deck. Luke and Leia land on the skiff with flair.

LUKE: Let's go! And don't forget the droids.

LANDO: We're on our way.

The Sail Barge is exploding in stages in the distance. Half of
the huge craft is on fire.

EXTERIOR: SAND DUNE

Threepio's legs stick straight up from the dune where he landed.
Next to it, Artoo's periscope is the only thing above the sand.
The skiff floats above them and two large electromagnets dangle
down on a wire. With a loud CLANG, both droids are pulled from
the sand.

EXTERIOR: DUNE SEA

The little skiff skips around the burning Sail Barge, which
continues its chain of explosions. As the skiff sails off across
the desert, the barge settles to the sand and disappears in one
final conflagration.

EXTERIOR: DUNE SEA - LANDING AREA

A ferocious sandstorm blocks our view. Then, through the ROAR, we
HEAR THE VOICES of our heroes. They emerge slowly from the veil
of sand, pressing on against the wind. First come Artoo and
Threepio, followed by Leia guiding Han, then Luke and Lando come
into view, each supporting one side of the towering Chewbacca,
who hobbles from his wound.

Soon, they can make out some large vague shapes in the blowing
sand. It is the Millennium Falcon and, parked beside it, Luke's
trusty X-wing and a two-seated Y-wing. They must shout to be
heard.

HAN: I don't know. All I can see is a lot of
blowing sand!

LEIA: That's all any of us can see.

HAN: (blinking) Then I guess I'm getting better.

As soon as the group huddles under the bulk of the Falcon, the
wind dies down to something more describable as a severe weather
condition. Threepio hits a switch, and the gang-plank lowers with
a HUM.

HAN: (turning to Luke) I've got to hand it to you, kid, you were
pretty good out there.

LUKE: (shrugging it off) I had a lot of help. Think nothing of it.

HAN: No, I'm thinking a lot about it. That carbon
freeze was the closest thing to dead there is. And 
it wasn't just sleepin'. It was a big wide awake 
nothing!

Luke nods, as Chewie growls affectionately at the young Jedi
warrior, mussing his hair like a proud uncle. And Leia warmly
hugs him.

LUKE: (moving to his ship) I'll see you back at the fleet.

HAN: Why don't you leave that crate and come with
us?

LUKE: I have a promise I have to keep first... to
an old friend.

Luke and Artoo take off in their spacecraft.

HAN: (looking dubiously at Lando, obviously
remembering his friend's betrayal and subsequent 
aide) Guess I owe you some thanks, too, Lando.

LANDO: Figured if I left you frozen like that you'd
just give me bad luck the rest of my life, so I might 
as well get you unfrozen sooner or later.

LEIA: He means "You're welcome."

LANDO: Come on, let's get off this miserable dust
ball.

EXTERIOR: SPACE ABOVE TATOOINE

The desolate yellow planet fills the screen, Luke's X-wing
appears and peels off to the left. A moment later, the FALCON
appears as a dot and grows huge, to roar directly over the
CAMERA.

INTERIOR: X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke is at the controls, with Artoo attached behind him outside
the canopy. Luke speaks into his comlink to the others, in the
MILLENNIUM FALCON.

LUKE: I'll meet you back at the fleet.

LEIA: (over comlink) Hurry. The Alliance should 
be assembled by now.

LUKE: I will.

HAN: (over comlink) Hey, Luke, thanks. Thanks 
for comin' after me. Now I owe you one.

A message from Artoo appears on the small monitor screen in front
of Luke. He smiles at the monitor and speaks to Artoo, as he
pulls a black glove on to cover his wounded mechanical hand.

LUKE: That's right, Artoo. We're going to the Dagobah system. I have a
promise to keep... to an old friend.

EXTERIOR: SPACE - DEATH STAR AND ENDOR

A Super Star Destroyer and several ships of the Imperial Fleet
rest in space above the half-completed Death Star and its green
neighbor, Endor. Four squads of TIE fighters escort an Imperial
shuttle toward the Death Star.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR - CORRIDOR TO DOCKING BAY

Lord Vader strides down the hallway, accompanied by a very
nervous Death Star commander.

INTERIOR: DOCKING BAY - DEATH STAR

Thousands of Imperial troops in tight formation fill the mammoth
docking bay. Vader and the officer walk to the landing platform,
where the shuttle is coming to rest.

The shuttle's ramp lowers and the Emperor's Royal Guards come out
and create a lethal perimeter. The assembled troops move to rigid
attention with a momentous SNAP.

Then, in the huge SILENCE which follows, the EMPEROR appears. He
is a rather small, shriveled old man. His bent frame slowly makes
its way down the ramp with the aid of a gnarled cane. He wears a
hooded cloak similar to the one Ben wears, except that it is
black. The Emperor's face is shrouded and difficult to see,
except for his piercing yellow eyes. Commander Jerjerrod and
Darth Vader kneel to him. The Supreme Ruler of the galaxy beckons
to the Dark Lord.

EMPEROR: (to Vader) Rise, my friend.

Vader rises and falls in next to the Emperor as he slowly makes
his way along the rows of troops. Jerjerrod and the other
commanders stay kneeling until the Supreme Ruler and Vader,
followed by several Imperial dignitaries, pass by; only then do
they join in the procession.

VADER: The Death Star will be completed on schedule.

EMPEROR: You have done well, Lord Vader. And now I
sense you wish to continue your search for young 
Skywalker.

VADER: Yes, my Master.

EMPEROR: Patience, my friend. In time he will seek you
out. And when he does, you must bring him before me. 
He has grown strong. Only together can we turn him to 
the dark side of the Force.

VADER: As you wish.

EMPEROR: Everything is proceeding as I have foreseen.

He laughs to himself as they pass along the vast line of Imperial
troops.

EXTERIOR: YODA'S HOUSE - DAGOBAH

Once again, Artoo finds himself waiting around in the damp
environs of the swamp planet, and he's none too happy about it.
He beeps disconsolately to himself and turns to look at Yoda's
cottage. Warm yellow light escapes the oddly shaped windows to
fight the gloom.

INTERIOR: YODA'S HOUSE

The tip of a walking stick taps hesitantly across the earthen
floor of the cottage. Our view travels up the stick to the small
green hand that clutches it, and then to the familiar face of
YODA, THE JEDI MASTER. His manner is frail, and his voice, though
cheerful, seems weaker.

YODA: Hmm. That face you make. Look I so old to
young eyes?

Luke is sitting in a corner of the cramped space and, indeed, his
look has been woeful. Caught, he tries to hide it.

LUKE: No... of course not.

YODA: (tickled, chuckles) I do, yes, I do!  Sick 
have I become. Old and weak. (Points a crooked 
finger) When nine hundred years old you reach, 
look as good you will not. Hmm?

Yoda chuckles at this, coughs, and hobbles over toward his bed.

YODA: Soon will I rest. Yes, forever sleep. Earned
it, I have.

Yoda sits himself on his bed, with great effort.

LUKE: Master Yoda, you can't die.

YODA: Strong am I with the Force... but not that
strong! Twilight is upon me and soon night must 
fall. That is the way of things... the way of the 
Force.

LUKE: But I need your help. I've come back to
complete the training.

YODA: No more training do you require. Already know
you that which you need.

Yoda sighs, and lies back on his bed.

LUKE: Then I am a Jedi?

YODA: (shakes his head) Ohhh. Not yet. One thing 
remains: Vader. You must confront Vader. Then, only 
then, a Jedi will you be. And confront him you will.

Luke is in agony. He is silent for a long moment, screwing up his
courage. Finally he is able to ask.

LUKE: Master Yoda... is Darth Vader my father?

Yoda's eyes are full of weariness and compassion. An odd, sad
smile creases his face. He turns painfully on his side, away from
Luke.

YODA: Mmm... rest I need. Yes... rest.

Luke watches him, each moment an eternity.

LUKE: Yoda, I must know.

YODA: Your father he is.

Luke reacts as if cut.

YODA: Told you, did he?

LUKE: Yes.

A new look of concern crosses Yoda's face.  He closes his eyes.

YODA: Unexpected this is, and unfortunate...

LUKE: Unfortunate that I know the truth?

Yoda opens his eyes again and studies the youth.

YODA: (gathering all his strength) No. Unfortunate 
that you rushed to face him... that incomplete was 
your training. Not ready for the burden were you.

LUKE: Well, I'm sorry.

YODA: Remember, a Jedi's strength flows from the
Force.  But beware.  Anger, fear, aggression. The 
dark side are they.  Once you start down the dark 
path, forever will it dominate your destiny.

He beckons the young Jedi closer to him.

YODA: Luke...Luke...Do not...Do not underestimate
the powers of the Emperor, or suffer your father's 
fate, you will. Luke, when gone am I (cough), the 
last of the Jedi will you be. Luke, the Force runs 
strong in your family. Pass on what you have learned, 
Luke... (with great effort) There is...another...
Sky...Sky...walker.

He catches his breath. A shiver runs through the ancient green
creature, and he dies. Luke stares at his dead master as he
disappears in front of his eyes.

EXTERIOR: DAGOBAH SWAMP - X-WING

Luke wanders back to where his ship is sitting. Artoo beeps a
greeting, but is ignored by his depressed master. Luke kneels
down, begins to help Artoo with the ship, then stops and shakes
his head dejectedly.

LUKE: I can't do it, Artoo. I can't go on alone.

BEN: (OS) Yoda will always be with you.

Luke looks up to see the shimmering image of BEN KENOBI.

LUKE: Obi-Wan! Why didn't you tell me?

The ghost of Ben Kenobi approaches him through the swamp.

LUKE: You told me Vader betrayed and murdered my
father.

BEN: You father was seduced by the dark side of
the Force. He ceased to be Anakin Skywalker and 
became Darth Vader. When that happened, the good 
man who was your father was destroyed. So what I 
have told you was true... from a certain point 
of view.

LUKE: (turning away, derisive) A certain point 
of view!

BEN: Luke, you're going to find that many of the
truths we cling to depend greatly on our own point 
of view.

Luke is unresponsive. Ben studies him in silence for a moment.

BEN: I don't blame you for being angry. If I was
wrong in what I did, it certainly wouldn't have 
been for the first time. You see, what happened 
to your father was my fault.

Ben pauses sadly.

BEN: Anakin was a good friend.

Luke turns with interest at this. As Ben speaks, Luke settles on
a stump, mesmerized. Artoo comes over to offer his comforting
presence.

BEN: When I first knew him, your father was already 
a great pilot. But I was amazed how strongly the 
Force was with him.  I took it upon myself to train 
him as a Jedi.  I thought that I could instruct him 
just as well as Yoda.  I was wrong.  My pride has had 
terrible consequences for the galaxy.

Luke is entranced.

LUKE: There's still good in him.

BEN: I also thought he could be turned back to the
good side. It couldn't be done. He is more machine 
now than man. Twisted and evil.

LUKE: I can't do it, Ben.

BEN: You cannot escape your destiny.

LUKE: I tried to stop him once. I couldn't do it.

BEN: Vader humbled you when first you met him,
Luke... but that experience was part of your
training. It taught you, among other things, the 
value of patience.  Had you not been so impatient 
to defeat Vader then, you could have finished 
your training here with Yoda. You would have been 
prepared.

LUKE: But I had to help my friends.

BEN: (grinning at Luke's indignation) And did you 
help them? It was they who had to save you. You 
achieved little by rushing back prematurely, I fear.

LUKE: (with sadness) I found out Darth Vader was my 
father.

BEN: To be a Jedi, Luke, you must confront and
then go beyond the dark side - the side your father 
couldn't get past. Impatience is the easiest door - 
for you, like your father. Only, your father was 
seduced by what he found on the other side of the 
door, and you have held firm. You're no longer so 
reckless now, Luke. You are strong and patient. And
now, you must face Darth Vader again!

LUKE: I can't kill my own father.

BEN: Then the Emperor has already won. You were
our only hope.

LUKE: Yoda spoke of another.

BEN: The other he spoke of is your twin sister.

LUKE: But I have no sister.

BEN: Hmm. To protect you both from the Emperor,
you were hidden from your father when you were 
born. The Emperor knew, as I did, if Anakin were 
to have any offspring, they would be a threat to 
him. That is the reason why your sister remains 
safely anonymous.

LUKE: Leia! Leia's my sister.

BEN: Your insight serves you well. Bury your
feelings deep down, Luke. They do you credit. But 
they could be made to serve the Emperor.

Luke looks into the distance, trying to comprehend all this.

BEN: (continuing his narrative) When your father 
left, he didn't know your mother was pregnant. Your 
mother and I knew he would find out eventually, but 
we wanted to keep you both as safe as possible, for 
as long as possible.  So I took you to live with my 
brother Owen on Tatooine... and your mother took 
Leia to live as the daughter of Senator Organa, on 
Alderaan.

Luke turns, and settles near Ben to hear the tale.

BEN: (attempting to give solace with his words) The 
Organa household was high-born and politically quite 
powerful in that system. Leia became a princess by 
virtue of lineage... no one knew she'd been adopted, 
of course. But it was a title without real power, 
since Alderaan had long been a democracy.  Even so, 
the family continued to be politically powerful, and 
Leia, following in her foster father's path, became 
a senator as well.  That's not all she became, of 
course... she became the leader of her cell in the 
Alliance against the corrupt Empire. And because she 
had diplomatic immunity, she was a vital link for 
getting information to the Rebel cause.  That's what 
she was doing when her path crossed yours... for her 
foster parents had always told her to contact me on
Tatooine, if her troubles became desperate.

Luke is overwhelmed by the truth, and is suddenly protective of
his sister.

LUKE: But you can't let her get involved now, Ben.
Vader will destroy her.

BEN: She hasn't been trained in the ways of the
Jedi the way you have, Luke ... but the Force is 
strong with her, as it is with all of your family. 
There is no avoiding the battle. You must face and 
destroy Vader!

EXTERIOR: SPACE - REBEL FLEET

The vast Rebel Fleet stretches as far as the eye can see.
Overhead a dozen small Corellian battleships fly in formation.
Fighters and battlecruisers surround the largest of the Rebel
Star Cruisers, the HEADQUARTERS FRIGATE.

INTERIOR: HEADQUARTERS FRIGATE - MAIN BRIEFING ROOM

Hundreds of Rebel commanders of all races and forms are assembled
in the WAR ROOM. WEDGE is among them. In the center of the room
is a holographic model depicting the half-completed Imperial
Death Star, the nearby Moon of Endor, and the protecting
deflector shield.

MON MOTHMA, the leader of the Alliance, enters the room. She is a
stern but beautiful woman in her fifties. Conferring with her are
several military leaders, including GENERAL MADINE and ADMIRAL
ACKBAR (a salmon-colored Mon Calamari). Lando moves through the
crowd until he finds Han and Chewie, standing next to Leia and
the two droids.

Han peers at Lando's new insignia on his chest, and is amused.

HAN: Well, look at you, a general, huh?

LANDO: Oh, well, someone must have told them about
my little maneuver at the battle of Taanab.

HAN: (sarcastic) Well, don't look at me, pal. I just 
said you were a fair pilot. I didn't know they were
lookin' for somebody to lead this crazy attack.

LANDO: (smiling) I'm surprised they didn't ask you 
to do it.

HAN: Well, who says they didn't.  But I ain't crazy. 
You're the respectable one, remember?

Mon Mothma signals for attention, and the room falls
silent.

MON MOTHMA: The Emperor has made a critical error and 
the time for our attack has come.

This causes a stir. Mon Mothma turns to a holographic model of
the Death Star, the Endor moon and the protecting deflector
shield in the center of the room.

MON MOTHMA: The data brought to us by the Bothan spies
pinpoints the exact location of the Emperor's new 
battle station. We also know that the weapon systems of 
this Death Star are not yet operational. With the 
Imperial Fleet spread throughout the galaxy in a vain 
effort to engage us, it is relatively unprotected. But
most important of all, we've learned that the Emperor 
himself is personally overseeing the final stages of 
the construction of this Death Star.

A volley of spirited chatter erupts from the crowd. Han turns to
Leia as Chewie barks his amazement.

MON MOTHMA: (cont) Many Bothans died to bring us this
information. Admiral Ackbar, please.

Admiral Ackbar steps forward and points to the Death Star's force
field and the Moon of Endor.

ACKBAR: You can see here the Death Star orbiting the
forest Moon of Endor. Although the weapon systems on 
this Death Star are not yet operational, the Death 
Star does have a strong defense mechanism. It is 
protected by an energy shield, which is generated 
from the nearby forest Moon of Endor. The shield must
be deactivated if any attack is to be attempted. Once 
the shield is down, our cruisers will create a 
perimeter, while the fighters fly into the 
superstructure and attempt to knock out the main 
reactor.

There's a concerned murmur.

ACKBAR: (cont) General Calrissian has volunteered to lead
the fighter attack.

Han turns to Lando with a look of respect.

HAN: Good luck.

Lando nods his thanks.

HAN: You're gonna need it.

ACKBAR: General Madine.

Madine moves center stage.

GENERAL MADINE: We have stolen a small Imperial shuttle.
Disguised as a cargo ship, and using a secret Imperial 
code, a strike team will land on the moon and deactivate 
the shield generator.

The assembly begins to mumble among themselves.

THREEPIO: Sounds dangerous.

LEIA: (to Han) I wonder who they found to pull that off.

GENERAL MADINE: General Solo, is your strike team 
assembled?

Leia, startled, looks up at Han, surprise changing to admiration.

HAN: Uh, my team's ready. I don't have a command
crew for the shuttle.

Chewbacca raises his hairy paw and volunteers.  Han looks up at
him.

HAN: Well, it's gonna be rough, pal. I didn't want
to speak for you.

Chewie waves that off with a huge GROWL.

HAN: (smiles) That's one.

LEIA: Uh, General... count me in.

VOICE: (OS) I'm with you, too!

They turn in that direction and peer into the crowd as there are
more cheers. The commanders part, and there at the back stands
Luke. Han and Leia are surprised and delighted.

Leia moves to Luke and embraces him warmly. She senses a change
in him and looks into his eyes questioningly.

LEIA: What is it?

LUKE: (hesitant) Ask me again sometime.

Han, Chewie, and Lando crowd around Luke as the assembly breaks
up.

HAN: Luke.

LUKE: Hi, Han... Chewie.

Artoo beeps a singsong observation to a worried Threepio.

THREEPIO: "Exciting" is hardly the word I 
would use.

INTERIOR: HEADQUARTERS FRIGATE - MAIN DOCKING BAY

The Millennium Falcon rests beyond the stolen IMPERIAL SHUTTLE,
which looks anomalous among all the Rebel ships in the vast
docking bay. Chewie barks a final farewell to Lando and leads
Artoo and Threepio up the shuttle, crowded now with the Rebel
strike team loading weapons and supplies. Lando turns to face
Han. Luke and Leia have said their good-byes and start up the
ramp.

HAN: Look. I want you to take her. I mean it. Take
her. You need all the help you can get. She's the 
fastest ship in the fleet.

LANDO: All right, old buddy. You know, I know what
she means to you. I'll take good care of her. She-
she won't get a scratch. All right?

HAN: (looks at him warmly) Right. I got your promise 
now. Not a scratch.

LANDO: Look, would you get going, you pirate.

Han and Lando pause, then exchange salutes.

LANDO: Good luck.

HAN: You, too.

Han goes up the ramp. Lando watches him go and then slowly turns
away.

INTERIOR: IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT

Luke is working on a back control panel as Han comes in and takes
the pilot's seat. Chewie, in the seat next to him, is trying to
figure out all the Imperial controls.

HAN: You got her warmed?

LUKE: Yeah, she's comin' up.

Chewie growls a complaint.

HAN: No. I don't think the Empire had Wookiees in
mind when they designed her, Chewie.

Leia comes in from the hold and takes her seat near Luke.

Chewie barks and hits some switches. Han's glance has stuck on
something out the window: the Millennium Falcon. Leia nudges him
gently.

LEIA: Hey, are you awake?

HAN: Yeah, I just got a funny feeling. Like I'm
not gonna see her again.

Chewie, hearing this, stops his activity and looks longingly out
at the Falcon, too. Leia puts a hand on Han's shoulder.

LEIA: (softly) Come on, General, let's move.

Han snaps back to life.

HAN: Right. Chewie, let's see what this piece of
junk can do. Ready, everybody?

LUKE: All set.

THREEPIO: Here we go again.

HAN: All right, hang on.

EXTERIOR: SPACE - THE REBEL FLEET

The stolen Imperial shuttle leaves the main docking bay of the
Headquarters Frigate, lowers its wings into flight position, and
zooms off into space.

INTERIOR: EMPEROR'S THRONE ROOM

The converted control room is dimly lit, except for a pool of
light at the far end. There the Emperor sits in an elaborate
control chair before a large window which looks out across the
half-completed Death Star to the giant green moon of Endor.

Darth Vader, standing with other members of the Imperial council,
cautiously approaches his master. The ruler's back is to Vader.
After several tense moments, the Emperor's chair rotates around
to face him.

VADER: What is thy bidding, my Master?

EMPEROR: Send the fleet to the far side of Endor.
There it will stay until called for.

VADER: What of the reports of the Rebel fleet
massing near Sullust?

EMPEROR: It is of no concern. Soon the Rebellion will
be crushed and young Skywalker will be one of us! Your 
work here is finished, my friend. Go out to the 
command ship and await my orders.

VADER: Yes, my Master.

Vader bows, then turns and exits the throne room as the Emperor
walks toward the waiting council members.

EXTERIOR: SPACE - DEATH STAR - MOON

There is a great deal of Imperial traffic in the area as
construction proceeds on the Death Star. Transports, TIE
fighters, and a few Star Destroyers move about. Now the huge
Super Star Destroyer announces itself with a low roar and soon
fills the frame.

INTERIOR: STOLEN IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT

Han looks back at Luke and Leia as Chewie flips several switches.
Through the viewscreen, the Death Star and the huge Super Star
Destroyer can be seen.

HAN: If they don't go for this, we're gonna have
to get outta here pretty quick, Chewie.

Chewie growls his agreement.

CONTROLLER: (over radio) We have you on our screen 
now. Please identify.

HAN: Shuttle Tydirium requesting deactivation of
the deflector shield.

CONTROLLER: (over radio) Shuttle Tydirium, transmit 
the clearance code for shield passage.

HAN: Transmission commencing.

Leia and Chewbacca listen tensely as the sound of a high speed
transmission begins.

LEIA: Now we find out if that code is worth the
price we paid.

HAN: It'll work. It'll work.

Chewie whines nervously. Luke stares at the Huge Super Star
Destroyer that looms ever larger before them.

LUKE: Vader's on that ship.

HAN: Now don't get jittery, Luke. There are a lot
of command ships. Keep your distance though, Chewie, 
but don't look like you're trying to keep your 
distance.

Chewie barks a question.

HAN: I don't know.  Fly casual.

LUKE: I'm endangering the mission. I shouldn't have
come.

HAN: It's your imagination, kid. Come on. Let's
keep a little optimism here.

Chewie barks his worries as the Super Star Destroyer grows larger
out the window.

INTERIOR: VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Lord Vader stands, back to us, staring out a window at the Death
Star. Now, some vibration felt only by him causes him to turn.
After a moment of stillness, he walks down the row of controllers
to where ADMIRAL PIETT is leaning over the tracking screen of the
controller we've seen earlier. Piett straightens at Vader's
approach.

VADER: Where is that shuttle going?

PIETT: (into comlink) Shuttle Tydirium, what is 
your cargo and destination?

PILOT VOICE: (HAN)(filtered) Parts and technical 
crew for the forest moon.

The Bridge Commander looks to Vader for a reaction.

VADER: Do they have a clearance code?

PIETT: It's an older code, sir, but it checks out. I
was about to clear them.

Vader looks upward, as he senses Luke's presence.

PIETT: Shall I hold them?

VADER: No. Leave them to me. I will deal with them
myself.

PIETT: (surprised) As you wish, my lord. 
(to controller) Carry on.

Piett nods at controller, who switches on his comlink.

INTERIOR: STOLEN IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT

The group waits tensely.

HAN: They're not goin' for it, Chewie.

CONTROLLER: (filtered) Shuttle Tydirium, 
deactivation of the shield will commence 
immediately. Follow your present course.

Everyone breaths a sigh of relief. Everyone but Luke, who looks
worried. Chewie barks.

HAN: Okay! I told you it was gonna work. No
problem.

EXTERIOR: SPACE - STOLEN IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - ENDOR

The stolen Imperial shuttle moves off toward the green Sanctuary
Moon.

EXTERIOR: FOREST LANDING SITE - ENDOR

The stolen Imperial shuttle sits in a clearing of the moon's
dark, primeval forest, dwarfed by the ancient towering trees.

On an adjacent hill, the helmeted Rebel contingent makes its way
up a steep trail. Leia and Han are slightly ahead of Chewie and
Luke. The troops of the strike-team squad follow, with Artoo and
Threepio bringing up the rear. Artoo beeps.

Up ahead, Chewie and Leia reach a crest in the hill and drop
suddenly to the ground, signaling the rest of the group to stop.
Han and Luke crawl up to take a look.

THREEPIO: Oh, I told you it was dangerous here.

THEIR POV. Not far below them, two IMPERIAL SCOUTS are wandering
through bushes in the valley below. Their two ROCKET BIKES are
parked nearby.

LEIA: Shall we try and go around?

HAN: It'll take time. This whole party'll be for
nothing if they see us.

Leia motions for the squad to stay put, then she, Han, Luke and
Chewie start quietly down.

EXTERIOR: FOREST CLEARING - CAMPSITE

The four friends make their way to the edge of the clearing not
far from the two Imperial scouts.

HAN: Chewie and I will take care of this. You stay
here.

LUKE: Quietly, there might be more of them out
there.

HAN: (grins) Hey... it's me.

Han and Chewie turn and start through the bushes toward the
scouts. Luke and Leia exchange smiles.

Han sneaks up behind one of the scouts, steps on a twig and the
scout whirls, knocking Han into a tree. The scout shouts for his
companion.

SCOUT #1: Go for help! Go!

The second scout jumps on his speeder bike and takes off, but
Chewie gets off a shot on his crossbow laser weapon, causing the
scout to crash into a tree. Han and Scout #1 are in a rousing
fistfight.

LUKE: (sarcastic) Great. Come on.

Luke starts for the scuffle, followed by Leia with her laser
pistol drawn. As they run through the bushes, Leia stops and
points to where two more scouts are sitting on their speeder
bikes, with an unoccupied bike parked nearby.

LEIA: Over there! Two more of them!

LUKE: I see them. Wait, Leia!

But Leia doesn't hear him and races for the remaining speeder
bike. She starts it up and takes off as Luke jumps on the bike
behind her.

LUKE: (pointing to the controls) Quick! Jam 
their comlink. Center switch!

Luke and Leia speed into the dense foliage in hot pursuit, barely
avoiding two huge trees.

HAN: Hey, wait! Ahhh!

He flips the remaining scout to the ground.

EXTERIOR: FOREST - THE BIKE CHASE

The two fleeing Imperial scouts have a good lead as Luke and Leia
pursue through the giant trees at 200 miles an hour, the fire
from their bike's laser cannon hitting harmlessly near the moving
targets.

LUKE: Move closer!

Leia guns it, closing the gap, as the two scouts recklessly veer
through a narrow gap in the trees. One of the bikes SCRAPES a
tree, slowing the scout.

LUKE: Get alongside that one!

Leia pulls her speeder bike up so close to the scout's bike that
their steering vanes SCRAPE noisily. Luke leaps from his bike to
the back of the scout's, grabs the Imperial warrior around the
neck, and flips him off the bike, into a thick tree trunk. Luke
gains control of the bike and follows Leia, who has pulled ahead.
They tear off after the remaining scout.

LUKE: Get him!

The speeding chase passes TWO MORE IMPERIAL SCOUTS. These two
swing into pursuit, chasing Luke and Leia, firing away with their
laser cannon. The two Rebels look behind them just as Luke's bike
takes a glancing hit.

LUKE: (indicating the one ahead) Keep on that 
one! I'll take these two!

With Leia shooting ahead, Luke suddenly slams his steering vanes
into the braking mode. Luke's bike is a blur to the two pursuing
scouts as they zip by him on either side. Luke slams his bike
into forward and starts firing away, having switched places with
his pursuers in a manner of seconds. Luke's aim is good and one
scout's bike is blasted out of control. It explodes against a
tree trunk.

The scout's cohort takes one glance back at the flash and shifts
into turbo drive, going even faster. Luke keeps on his tail.

FAR AHEAD, Leia and the first scout are doing a highspeed slalom
through the death-dealing trunks. Now Leia aims her bike skyward
and rises out of sight.

The scout turns in confusion, unable to see his pursuer.
Suddenly, Leia dives down upon him from above, cannon blasting.
The scout's bike takes a glancing hit.

Leia moves in alongside him. The scout eyes her beside him,
reaches down, and pulls out a handgun. Before Leia can react, the
scout has blasted her bike, sending it out of control. Leia dives
off as her bike explodes against a tree. The happy scout looks
back at the explosion. But when he turns forward again, he is on
a collision course with a giant fallen tree. He hits his brakes
to no avail and disappears in a conflagration.

ANOTHER PART OF THE FOREST: Luke and the last remaining scout
continue their weaving chase through the trees. Now Luke moves up
close. The scout responds by slamming his bike into Luke's. A
fallen tree forms a bridge across their path. The scout zips
under. Luke goes over the top and crashes his bike down on the
scout's. Both riders look ahead - a wide trunk looms directly in
Luke's path, but the scout's bike beside him makes it almost
impossible for him to avoid it. Luke banks with all his might,
leaning almost horizontal over the scout's bike, and is able to
make it by, just clipping the tree. When he straightens, he and
the scout discover that their two bikes have locked front vanes
and are moving as one.

Another big tree looms in Luke's path. He reacts instinctively
and dives off his bike. The two bikes come apart a second before
Luke's explodes against a tree. The scout sweeps out and circles
back to find Luke.

Luke rises from the undergrowth as the scout bears down on him
and opens fire with his laser cannon. Luke ignites his laser
sword and begins deflecting the bolts. The scout's bike keeps
coming and it appears that in a second it will cut Luke in half.
At the last instant, Luke steps aside and chops off the bike's
control vanes with one mighty slash. The scout's bike begins to
shudder, then, pitching and rolling, it rises up to slam directly
into a tree in a giant ball of fire.

EXTERIOR: SCOUT CAMPSITE - FOREST

Han, Chewie, and the droids, along with the rest of the squad,
wait anxiously in the clearing. Artoo's radar screen sticks out
of his domed head and revolves, scanning the forest. He beeps.

THREEPIO: Oh, General Solo, somebody's coming. Oh!

Han, Chewie, and the rest of the squad raise their weapons.

Luke steps out of the foliage to find the weapons trained on him.
He's too tired to care. He plops himself down on a boulder and
looks around.

HAN: Luke! Where's Leia?

LUKE: (concerned) What? She didn't come back?

HAN: I thought she was with you.

LUKE: We got separated.

Luke and Han exchange a silent, grim look. Luke gets up wearily.

LUKE: Hey, we better go look for her.

Han nods, and signals to a Rebel officer.

HAN: Take the squad ahead.  We'll meet at the
shield generator at 0300.

LUKE: Come on, Artoo.  We'll need your scanners.

Luke, Chewie, Han, and the droids move off in one direction as
the squad proceeds in another.

THREEPIO: Don't worry, Master Luke.  We know what to
do.

They move off into the woods.

THREEPIO: (to Artoo) And you said it was pretty 
here. Ugh!

EXTERIOR: FOREST CLEARING - LEIA'S CRASH SITE

A strange little furry face with huge black eyes comes slowly
into view. The creature is an EWOK, by the name of WICKET. He
seems somewhat puzzled, and prods Leia with a spear. The princess
groans; this frightens the stubby ball of fuzz and he prods her
again. Leia sits up and stares at the three-foot-high Ewok. She
tries to figure out where she is and what has happened. Her
clothes are torn; she's bruised and disheveled.

The Ewok jumps up and grabs a four-foot-long spear, which he
holds in a defensive position. Leia watches him as he circles
warily and begins poking her with the sharp point of the spear.

LEIA: Cut it out!

She stands up, and the Ewok quickly backs away.

LEIA: I'm not gonna hurt you.

Leia looks around at the dense forest, and at the charred remains
of her speeder bike, then sits down, with a sigh, on a fallen
log.

LEIA: Well, looks like I'm stuck here. Trouble is,
I don't know where here is.

She puts her head in her hands to rub away some of the soreness
from her fall. She looks over at the watchful little Ewok and
pats the log beside her.

LEIA: Well, maybe you can help me. Come on, sit down.

Wicket holds his spear up warily and growls at her like a puppy.
Leia pats the log again.

LEIA: I promise I won't hurt you. Now come here.

More growls and squeaks from the little bear creature.

LEIA: All right. You want something to eat?

She takes a scrap of food out of her pocket and offers it to him.
Wicket takes a step backward, then cocks his head and moves
cautiously toward Leia, chattering in his squeaky Ewok language.

LEIA: That's right. Come on. Hmmm?

Sniffing the food curiously, the Ewok comes toward Leia and sits
on the log beside her. She takes off her helmet, and the little
creature jumps back, startled again. He runs along the log,
pointing his spear at her and chattering a blue streak. Leia
holds out the helmet to him.

LEIA: Look, it's a hat. It's not gonna hurt you.
Look. You're a jittery little thing, aren't you?

Reassured, Wicket lowers his spear and climbs back on the log,
coming to investigate the helmet. Suddenly his ears perk up and
he begins to sniff the air. He looks around warily, whispering
some Ewokese warning to Leia.

LEIA: What is it?

Suddenly a laser bolt comes out of the foliage and explodes on
the log next to Leia. Leia and Wicket both roll backwards off the
log, hiding behind it. Leia holds her own laser gun ready, while
Wicket disappears underneath the log. Another shot, and still no
sight of anyone in the forest. Then Leia senses something and
turns to find a large IMPERIAL SCOUT standing over her with his
weapon pointed at her head. He reaches out his hand for her
weapon.

SCOUT #l: Freeze! Come on, get up!

She hands the weapon over, as a second scout emerges from the
foliage in front of the log.

SCOUT #1: Go get your ride and take her back to base.

SCOUT #2: Yes, sir.

The second scout starts toward his bike, as Wicket, crouched
under the log, extends his spear and hits the first scout on the
leg. The scout jumps and lets out an exclamation, and looks down
at Wicket, puzzled. Leia grabs a branch and knocks him out. She
dives for his laser pistol, and the second scout, now on his
bike, takes off. Leia fires away and hits the escaping bike,
causing it to crash into the first scout's bike, which flies end
over end and explodes. The forest is quiet once more. Wicket
pokes his fuzzy head up from behind the log and regards Leia with
new respect. He mumbles his awe. Leia hurries over, looking
around all the time, and motions the chubby little creature into
the dense foliage.

LEIA: Come on, let's get outta here.

As they move into the foliage, Wicket takes the lead. He shrieks
and tugs at Leia to follow him.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR - CORRIDOR TO EMPEROR'S TOWER

Darth Vader walks down the corridor to the Emperor's Tower and
private elevator. The Emperor's private guard steps in Vader's
path.

GUARD: Halt! The Emperor does not wish to be
disturbed at the moment.

VADER: (raising his gloved hand to the two guards
and choking them with the Force) The Emperor will 
see me, now!

GUARD: (repeating Vader's command) The Emperor 
will see you, now.

INTERIOR: EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Two red Imperial Guards stand watch at the elevator as the door
opens to reveal Vader. Vader enters the eerie, foreboding throne
room. It appears to be empty. His footsteps echo as he approaches
the throne. He waits, absolutely still. The Emperor sits with his
back to the Dark Lord.

EMPEROR: I told you to remain on the command ship.

VADER: A small Rebel force has penetrated the shield
and landed on Endor.

EMPEROR: (no surprise) Yes, I know.

VADER: (after a beat) My son is with them.

EMPEROR: (very cool) Are you sure?

VADER: I have felt him, my Master.

EMPEROR: Strange, that I have not. I wonder if your
feelings on this matter are clear, Lord Vader.

Vader knows what is being asked.

VADER: They are clear, my Master.

EMPEROR: Then you must go to the Sanctuary Moon and
wait for them.

VADER: (skeptical) He will come to me?

EMPEROR: I have foreseen it. His compassion for you
will be his undoing. He will come to you and then you 
will bring him before me.

VADER: (bows)As you wish.

The Dark Lord strides out of the throne room.

EXTERIOR: FOREST CLEARING - LEIA'S CRASH SITE

Han, Luke, Chewie, and the two droids are spread out as they move
through the heavy foliage near the clearing where we last saw
Leia. Luke finds Leia's helmet, picks it up with an expression of
concern.

HAN: (OS) Luke! Luke!

Luke runs with the helmet to where Han has found the charred
wreckage of a speeder bike in the grass.

THREEPIO: Oh, Master Luke.

LUKE: There's two more wrecked speeders back there.
And I found this.

He tosses the helmet to Han.

THREEPIO: I'm afraid that Artoo's sensors can find no
trace of Princess Leia.

HAN: (gravely) I hope she's alright.

Chewbacca growls, sniffing the air, then, with a bark, pushes off
through the foliage.

HAN: What, Chewie? What? Chewie!

The others rush to keep up with the giant Wookiee. As he scoots
along, Artoo whistles nervously.

EXTERIOR: FOREST - DENSE FOLIAGE

The group has reached a break in the undergrowth. Chewie walks up
to a tall stake planted in the ground. There is a dead animal
hanging from it.

HAN: Hey, I don't get it.

The rest of the group joins the Wookiee around the stake.

HAN: (cont) Nah, it's just a dead animal, Chewie.

Chewie can't resist. He reaches toward the meat.

LUKE: Chewie, wa-wait!  Don't!

Too late. The Wookiee has already pulled the animal from the
stake. SPROOING! The group finds itself hanging upside down in an
Ewok net, suspended high above the clearing. Artoo lets out a
wild series of beeps and whistles, and Chewie howls his regret.
Their bodies are a jumble in the net. Han removes a Wookiee paw
from his mouth.

HAN: Nice work. Great, Chewie! Great! Always
thinking with your stomach.

LUKE: Will you take it easy? Let's just figure out
a way to get out of this thing. (trying to free an 
arm) Han, can you reach my lightsaber?

HAN: Yeah, sure.

Artoo is at the bottommost point in the net. He extends his
cutting appendage and begins slicing at the net. Han is trying to
squeeze an arm past Threepio to get at Luke's lightsaber. The net
continues to spin.

THREEPIO: Artoo, I'm not sure that's such a good idea.
It's a very long dro-o-op!!

Artoo has cut through and the entire group tumbles out of the
net, crashing to the ground. As they regain their senses and
sit up, they realize they are surrounded by dozens of Ewoks,
each brandishing a long spear.

HAN: Wha--?  Hey!  Point that thing someplace else.

Han pushes the spear wielded by TEEBO out of his face and a
second Ewok warrior comes up to argue with Teebo. The spear
returns to Han's face. He grabs it angrily and starts to go for
his laser pistol.

HAN: Hey!

LUKE: Han, don't. It'll be all right.

The Ewoks swarm through them and confiscate their weapons. Luke
lets them take his lightsaber. Chewie growls at the furry
critters.

LUKE: Chewie, give 'em your crossbow.

Artoo and Threepio are just untangling themselves. Threepio gets
free of the net and sits up, rattled.

THREEPIO: Oh, my head. Oh, my goodness!

When the Ewoks see Threepio, they let out a gasp and chatter
among themselves. Threepio speaks to them in their native tongue.
The Ewok nearest him drops his spear and prostrates himself
before the droid. In a moment, all the Ewoks have followed suit.
Chewie lets out a puzzled bark. Han and Luke regard the bowed
creatures in wonder. The Ewoks begin to chant at Threepio.

LUKE: Do you understand anything they're saying?

THREEPIO: Oh, yes, Master Luke!  Remember that I am
fluent in over six million forms of communication.

HAN: What are you telling them?

THREEPIO: Hello, I think... I could be mistaken.
They're using a very primitive dialect.  But I do 
believe they think I am some sort of god.

Chewbacca and Artoo think that's very funny. Han and Luke
exchange "what next?" looks.

HAN: Well, why don't you use your divine influence
and get us out of this?

THREEPIO: I beg your pardon, General Solo, but that
just wouldn't be proper.

HAN: Proper?!

THREEPIO: It's against my programming to impersonate a
deity.

Han moves toward Threepio threateningly.

HAN: Why, you--

Several Ewoks' spears are thrust in Han's face at the affront to
their god. The Ewoks move in to protect their god and Han is
surrounded by a menacing circle of spears, all aimed at him. He
holds up his hands placatingly.

HAN: My mistake. He's an old friend of mine.

EXTERIOR: FOREST - SERIES OF SHOTS

A procession of Ewoks winds through the ever-darkening forest.
Their prisoners - Han, Luke, Chewie, and Artoo - are tied to long
poles and wrapped in vines, cocoonlike.

Each pole is carried on the shoulders of several Ewoks. Behind
the captives, Threepio is carried on a litter, like a king, by
the remaining creatures.

EXTERIOR: FOREST WALKWAY - MOON FOREST

The procession moves along a shaky, narrow, wooden walkway, high
in the giant trees. It stops at the end of the walkway, which
drops off into nothingness. On the other side of the abyss is a
village of mud huts and rickety walkways, attached to the giant
trees. The lead Ewok takes hold of a long vine and swings across
to the village square; the other Ewoks follow suit.

EXTERIOR: EWOK VILLAGE SQUARE

The procession winds its way into the village square. Mother
Ewoks gather their babies up and scurry into their huts at the
sight of the newcomers. The group stops before the largest hut.

Han, Luke, Chewie, and Artoo are still bound to their poles. Han
is placed on a spit above what looks like a barbecue pit and the
others are leaned against a tree nearby. Threepio's litter/throne
is gently placed near the pit. He watches with rapt fascination.
Han, Luke, and Chewie are less than fascinated.

HAN: I have a really bad feeling about this.

Chewie growls his concern.

Suddenly all activity stops as LOGRAY, the tribal Medicine Man,
comes out of the big hut. He examines the captives carefully,
goes to join Threepio, whose throne has been placed on an
elevated platform. A larger, gray-haired Ewok, CHIEF CHIRPA, is
examining Luke's lightsaber with great curiosity.

Logray speaks to Threepio and the assemblage of fuzzy Ewoks,
pointing to the prisoners tied to the stakes. The Ewoks begin
filling the pit under Han with firewood.

HAN: What did he say?

THREEPIO: I'm rather embarrassed, General Solo, but it
appears you are to be the main course at a banquet in my 
honor.

The drums start beating, and all the furry heads turn to the
large hut. Leia emerges, wearing an animal-skin dress. She sees
what's happening at the same moment the prisoners see her.

HAN and LUKE: Leia!

As she moves toward them, the Ewoks block her way with raised
spears.

LEIA: Oh!

THREEPIO: Your Royal Highness.

Artoo and Chewie chime in with their welcome. Leia looks at the
assembled Ewoks and sighs.

LEIA: But these are my friends. Threepio, tell them
they must be set free.

Threepio talks to Chirpa and Logray, who listen and shake their
heads negatively. The Medicine Man gestures toward the prisoners
and barks some orders. Several Ewoks jump up and pile more wood
on the barbecue with vigor. Leia trades frantic looks with Luke
and Han.

HAN: Somehow, I got the feeling that didn't help us 
very much.

LUKE: Threepio, tell them if they don't do as you
wish, you'll become angry and use your magic.

THREEPIO: But Master Luke, what magic? I couldn't
possibly --

LUKE: Just tell them.

Threepio speaks to the Ewoks. The Ewoks are disturbed. Logray
steps forward and challenges Threepio. Luke closes his eyes and
begins to concentrate.

THREEPIO: You see, Master Luke; they didn't believe me.
Just...

Now the litter/throne, with Threepio sitting upon it, rises from
the ground. At first Threepio doesn't notice and keeps talking.

THREEPIO: ...as I said they wouldn't. Wha-wha-what's
happening! Oh! Oh, dear! Oh!

The Ewoks fall back in terror from the floating throne. Now
Threepio begins to spin as though he were on a revolving stool,
with Threepio calling out in total panic at his situation.

THREEPIO: Put me down! He-e-elp! Master Luke! Artoo!
Somebody, somebody, help! Master Luke, Artoo! Artoo, 
quickly! Do something, somebody! Oh! Ohhh!

Chief Chirpa yells orders to the cowering Ewoks. They rush up and
release the bound prisoners. Luke and Han enfold Leia in a group
embrace. Luke notices the spinning Threepio, with Artoo beeping
up at him, and slowly lowers the golden droid and the throne to
the ground. Logray orders the little droid cut down. Artoo
crashes to the ground. When the Ewoks set him upright, the little
droid is fighting mad. Artoo beeps a blue streak at the nearest
Ewok, and begins pursuing him, finally getting close enough to
zap him with an electric charge. The Ewok jumps two feet in the
air and runs away, screaming. A small group of Ewoks surround the
giant Wookiee, scratching their heads and marveling at his
height.

THREEPIO: Oh, oh, oh, oh! Thank goodness.

LUKE: Thanks, Threepio.

THREEPIO: (still shaken) I... I never knew I had it 
in me.

INTERIOR: CHIEF'S HUT - COUNCIL OF ELDERS

A glowing fire dances in the center of the spartan, low-ceilinged
room, creating a kaleidoscope of shadows on the walls. Along one
side, a group of ten Ewok elders flank Chief Chirpa, who sits on
his throne. The Rebels sit along the walls of the hut, with
Threepio between the two groups and Wicket and Teebo off to one
side.

Threepio is in the midst of a long, animated speech in the Ewok's
squeaky native tongue. The Ewoks listen carefully and
occasionally murmur comments to each other. Threepio points
several times at the Rebel group and pantomimes a short history
of the Galactic Civil War, mimicking the explosion and rocket
sounds, imitating Imperial walkers. Throughout the long account,
certain familiar names are distinguishable in English: Princess
Leia, Artoo, Darth Vader, Death Star, Jedi, Obi-Wan Kenobi. Artoo
begins beeping excitedly at Threepio.

THREEPIO: Yes, Artoo. I was just coming to that.

Threepio continues with: Millennium Falcon, Cloud City, Vader,
Han Solo, carbonite, Sarlacc, bringing the history up to the
present time.

At the end of it, the Chief, Logray, and the elders confer, then
nod in agreement. The Chief stands and makes a pronouncement.

The drums begin to sound, and all the Ewoks stand with a great
cheer and screeches.

HAN: What's going on?

LEIA: I don't know.

Luke has been sharing the joy with smiling visage, but now
something passes like a dark cloud through his consciousness. The
others do not notice.

THREEPIO: Wonderful! We are now a part of the tribe.

Several of the little teddy bears run up and hug the Rebels.

HAN: Just what I always wanted.

Chewbacca is being enthusiastically embraced by an Ewok, while
Wicket clings to Han's leg.

HAN: (chuckles) Well, short help is better than no 
help at all, Chewie. (to Wicket) Thank you. Okay.

THREEPIO: He says the scouts are going to show us the
quickest way to the shield generator.

Chewie barks. Luke has drifted to the back of the hut. Now he
wanders outside into the moonlight. Leia notices and follows.

HAN: Good. How far is it? Ask him. We need some
fresh supplies, too. And try and get our weapons 
back.

Han pulls Threepio back as he keeps trying to translate.

HAN: (cont) And hurry up, will ya? I haven't got all day.

EXTERIOR: EWOK VILLAGE - NIGHT

The walkway is deserted now. The windows of the little huts glow
and flicker from the fires inside. The sounds of the forest fill
the soft night air. Luke has wandered away from the Chief's hut
and stands staring up at the Death Star. Leia finds him like
that.

LEIA: Luke, what's wrong?

Luke turns and looks at her a long moment.

LUKE: Leia... do you remember your mother? Your
real mother?

LEIA: Just a little bit. She died when I was very
young.

LUKE: What do you remember?

LEIA: Just...images, really. Feelings.

LUKE: Tell me.

LEIA: (a little surprised at his insistence) She 
was very beautiful. Kind, but...sad. (looks up) 
Why are you asking me all this?

He looks away.

LUKE: I have no memory of my mother. I never knew
her.

LEIA: Luke, tell me. What's troubling you?

LUKE: Vader is here...now, on this moon.

LEIA: (alarmed) How do you know?

LUKE: I felt his presence. He's come for me. He can
feel when I'm near. That's why I have to go. (facing 
her) As long as I stay, I'm endangering the group and 
our mission here. (beat) I have to face him.

Leia is distraught, confused.

LEIA: Why?

Luke moves close and his manner is gentle. And very calm.

LUKE: He's my father.

LEIA: Your father?

LUKE: There's more. It won't be easy for you to
hear it, but you must. If I don't make it back, 
you're the only hope for the Alliance.

Leia is very disturbed by this. She moves away, as if to deny it.

LEIA: Luke, don't talk that way. You have a power
I--I don't understand and could never have.

LUKE: You're wrong, Leia. You have that power too.
In time you'll learn to use it as I have. The Force 
is strong in my family. My father has it...I have 
it...and...my sister has it.

Leia stares into his eyes. What she sees there frightens her. But
she doesn't draw away. She begins to understand.

LUKE: Yes. It's you Leia.

LEIA: I know. Somehow...I've always known.

LUKE: Then you know why I have to face him.

LEIA: No! Luke, run away, far away. If he can feel
your presence, then leave this place. I wish I could 
go with you.

LUKE: No, you don't. You've always been strong.

LEIA: But, why must you confront him?

LUKE: Because...there is good in him. I've felt it. 
He won't turn me over to the Emperor. I can save him. 
I can turn him back to the good side. I have to try.

They hold each other close and look at each other, brother and
sister.

Leia holds back her tears as Luke slowly lets her go and moves
away. He disappears onto the walkway that leads out of the
village. Leia, bathed in moonlight, watches him go as Han comes
out of the Chief's hut and comes over to her.

Leia is crying, her body trembling. He realizes only now that she
is crying.

HAN: Hey, what's goin' on?

Leia attempts to stifle her sobs and wipes her eyes.

LEIA: Nothing. I - just want to be alone for a
little while.

HAN: (angry) Nothing?  Come on, tell me.  What's 
goin' on?

She looks up at him, struggling to control herself.

LEIA: I... I can't tell you.

HAN: (loses his temper) Did you tell Luke? Is that 
who you could tell?

LEIA: I...

HAN: Ahhh...

He starts to walk away, exasperated, then stops and walks back to
her.

HAN: I'm sorry.

LEIA: Hold me.

Han gathers her tightly in his protective embrace.

EXTERIOR: FOREST - IMPERIAL LANDING PLATFORM

An Imperial shuttle floats down from the Death Star and lands
gracefully on the huge platform.

Now, an Imperial walker approaches the platform from the darkness
of the forest. The whole outpost - platform, walkers, military -
looks particularly offensive in the midst of this verdant beauty.

EXTERIOR: IMPERIAL LANDING PLATFORM - LOWER DECK

Darth Vader walks down the ramp of the shuttle onto the platform,
into an elevator, and appears on a ramp on a lower level. He
walks toward another ramp exit and is met by two troopers and a
commander with Luke, in binders, at their center. The young Jedi
gazes at Vader with complete calm.

COMMANDER: This is a Rebel that surrendered to us.
Although he denies it, I believe there may be more 
of them, and I request permission to conduct a 
further search of the area.

The commander extends his hand, revealing Luke's lightsaber.

COMMANDER: He was armed only with this.

Vader looks at Luke, turns away and faces the commander, taking
the lightsaber from the commander's hand.

VADER: Good work, Commander. Leave us. Conduct your
search and bring his companions to me.

COMMANDER: Yes, my Lord.

The officer and troops withdraw. Vader and Luke are left standing
alone in the oddly tranquil beauty of the place. The sounds of
the forest filter in upon them.

VADER: The Emperor has been expecting you.

LUKE: I know, father.

VADER: So, you have accepted the truth.

LURE: I've accepted the truth that you were once
Anakin Skywalker, my father.

VADER: (turning to face him) That name no longer 
has any meaning for me.

LUKE: It is the name of your true self. You've only
forgotten. I know there is good in you. The Emperor 
hasn't driven it from you fully. That is why you 
couldn't destroy me. That's why you won't bring me 
to your Emperor now.

Vader looks down from Luke to the lightsaber in his own black-
gloved hand. He seems to ponder Luke's words.

VADER: (indicating lightsaber) I see you have 
constructed a new lightsaber.

Vader ignites the lightsaber and holds it to examine its humming,
brilliant blade.

VADER: Your skills are complete. Indeed, you are
powerful, as the Emperor has foreseen.

They stand for a moment, the Vader extinguishes the lightsaber.

LUKE: Come with me.

VADER: Obi-Wan once thought as you do.

Luke steps close to Vader, then stops. Vader is still.

VADER: You don't know the power of the dark side. I
must obey my master.

LUKE: I will not turn...and you'll be forced to
kill me.

VADER: If that is your destiny.

LUKE: Search your feelings, father. You can't do
this. I feel the conflict within you. Let go of 
your hate.

VADER: It is too late for me, son. The Emperor will
show you the true nature of the Force. He is your 
master now.

Vader signals to some distant stormtroopers. He and Luke stand
staring at one another for a long moment.

LUKE: Then my father is truly dead.

EXTERIOR: ENDOR - RIDGE OVERLOOKING SHIELD GENERATOR

Han, Leia, Chewbacca, the droids, Wicket, and another Ewok scout,
PAPLOO, hide on a ridge overlooking the massive Imperial shield
generator. At the base of the generator is an Imperial landing
platform. Leia studies the installation.

LEIA: The main entrance to the control bunker's on
the far side of that landing platform. This isn't 
gonna be easy.

HAN: Hey, don't worry. Chewie and me got into a
lot of places more heavily guarded than this.

Wicket and Paploo are chattering away in Ewok language. They
speak to Threepio.

LEIA: What's he saying?

THREEPIO: He says there's a secret entrance on the
other side of the ridge.

EXTERIOR: SPACE - REBEL FLEET

The vast fleet hangs in space near a blue planet. A giant Rebel
Star Cruiser is up at the front, but now the Millennium Flacon
roars up to a spot ahead of it, tiny in comparison.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando is in the pilot seat. His alien copilot, NIEN NUNB, takes
some getting used to in the familiar environs of the Falcon's
cockpit. Lando speaks into his comlink.

LANDO: Admiral, we're in position. All fighters
accounted for.

ACKBAR: (VO) Proceed with the countdown. All groups 
assume attack coordinates.

Lando turns to his weird copilot.

LANDO: Don't worry, my friends are down there. 
They'll have that shield down on time...(to himself) 
or this'll be the shortest offensive of all time.

The copilot flips some switches and grunts an alien comment.

ACKBAR: (VO) All craft, prepare to jump to 
hyperspace on my mark.

LANDO: All right. Stand by.

He pulls a lever, and the stars outside begin to streak.

EXTERIOR: SPACE - REBEL FLEET

We are treated to an awesome sight: first the Millennium Falcon,
then Ackbar's Star Cruiser, then, in large segments, the huge
fleet ROARS INTO HYPERSPACE. And disappears.

EXTERIOR: ENDOR - RIDGE OVERLOOKING CONTROL BUNKER

Han, Leia, Chewie, the droids, and their two Ewok guides, Wicket
and Paploo, have reunited with the Rebel strike squad. The entire
group is spread through the thick undergrowth. Below them is the
BUNKER that leads into the generator. Four Imperial scouts, their
speeder bikes parked nearby, keep watch over the bunker entrance.
Chewie growls an observation, and Paploo chatters away to Han in
Ewok language.

HAN: Back door, huh? Good idea.

Wicket and Paploo continue their Ewok conversation.

HAN: (cont) It's only a few guards. This shouldn't 
be too much trouble.

LEIA: Well, it only takes one to sound the alarm.

HAN: (with self-confident grin) Then we'll do it 
real quiet-like.

Threepio explains what is going on to Wicket and Paploo. The
Ewoks chatter a moment between themselves. Then Paploo jumps up
and scampers into the underbrush.

Threepio asks Wicket where Paploo went and is given a short
reply.

THREEPIO: Oh! Oh, my. Uh, Princess Leia!

LEIA: Quiet.

THREEPIO: I'm afraid our furry companion has gone and
done something rather rash.

LEIA: Oh, no.

EXTERIOR: BUNKER - ENTRANCE

Paploo has slipped out of the undergrowth near where the Imperial
scouts are lounging. He silently swings his furry ball of a body
onto one of the scout's speeder bikes and begins flipping
switches at random. Suddenly, the bike's engine fires up with a
tremendous ROAR. Paploo grins and continues flipping switches.
The scouts leap up in surprise.

EXTERIOR: RIDGE

Han, Leia and company watch in distress. Chewie barks.

HAN: (sighs) There goes our surprise attack.

EXTERIOR: BUNKER

The Imperial scouts race toward Paploo just as his speeder zooms
into motion. Paploo hangs on by his paws and shoots away into the
forest.

SCOUT: Look! Over there! Stop him!

Three of the Imperial scouts jump on their rocket bikes and speed
away in pursuit. The fourth watches them go from his post at the
door.

EXTERIOR: RIDGE

Han, Leia, and Chewie exchange delighted looks.

HAN: Not bad for a little furball. There's only
one left. You stay here. We'll take care of this.

Han and the Wookiee nod at each other and slip down toward the
bunker. Threepio moves to stand next to Wicket and Artoo.

THREEPIO: I have decided that we shall stay here.

EXTERIOR: FOREST

Paploo sails through the trees, more lucky than in control. It's
scary, but he loves it. When the Imperial scouts pull within
sight behind him and begin firing laser bolts, he decides he's
had enough. As he rounds a tree, out of their sight, Paploo grabs
a vine and swings up into the trees. A moment later, the scouts
tear under him in pursuit of the still-flying, unoccupied bike.

EXTERIOR: BUNKER

Han sneaks up behind the remaining Imperial scout, taps him on
the shoulder and lets the scout chase him behind the bunker into
the arms of the waiting Rebel strike team. Han returns to the
front, and taps out a pattern on the bunker door's control panel.
Everyone stands out of sight, police-style, as the door opens.
Han and Leia peek inside. No sign of life. The group enters the
bunker silently, leaving one lookout behind.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR - EMPEROR'S THRONE ROOM

The elevator opens. Vader and Luke enter the room alone. They
walk across the dark space to stand before the throne, father and
son side by side beneath the gaze of the Emperor. Vader bows to
his Master.

EMPEROR: Welcome, young Skywalker. I have been
expecting you.

Luke peers at the hooded figure defiantly. The Emperor then looks
down at Luke's binders.

EMPEROR: You no longer need those.

The Emperor motions ever so slightly with his finger and Luke's
binders fall away, clattering to the floor. Luke looks down at
his own hands, free now to reach out and grab the Emperor's neck.
He does nothing.

EMPEROR: Guards, leave us.

The red-cloaked guards turn and disappear behind the elevator.

EMPEROR: (to Luke) I'm looking forward to completing your
training. In time you will call me Master.

LUKE: You're gravely mistaken. You won't convert me
as you did my father.

The Emperor gets down from his throne and walks up very close to
Luke. The Emperor looks into his eyes and, for the first time,
Luke can perceive the evil visage within the hood.

EMPEROR: Oh, no, my young Jedi. You will find that
it is you who are mistaken...about a great many 
things.

VADER: His lightsaber.

Vader extends a gloved hand toward the Emperor, revealing Luke's
lightsaber. The Emperor takes it.

EMPEROR: Ah, yes, a Jedi's weapon. Much like your
father's. By now you must know your father can 
never be turned from the dark side. So will it be 
with you.

LUKE: You're wrong. Soon I'll be dead...and you
with me.

The Emperor laughs.

EMPEROR: Perhaps you refer to the imminent attack of
your Rebel fleet.

Luke looks up sharply.

EMPEROR: Yes... I assure you we are quite safe from
your friends here.

Vader looks at Luke.

LUKE: Your overconfidence is your weakness.

EMPEROR: Your faith in your friends is yours.

VADER: It is pointless to resist, my son.

The Emperor turns to face Luke.

EMPEROR: (angry) Everything that has transpired has 
done so according to my design. (indicates Endor) Your 
friends up there on the Sanctuary Moon...

Luke reacts. The Emperor notes it.

EMPEROR: (cont) ...are walking into a trap. As is your 
Rebel fleet! It was I who allowed the Alliance to know 
the location of the shield generator. It is quite safe 
from your pitiful little band. An entire legion of my 
best troops awaits them.

Luke's look darts from the Emperor to Vader and, finally, to the
sword in the Emperor's hand.

EMPEROR: Oh... I'm afraid the deflector shield will be
quite operational when your friends arrive.

INTERIOR: BUNKER - MAIN CONTROL ROOM

Han, Leia, Chewie, and the Rebel strike team storm through a door
and enter the main control room, taking all of the personnel
prisoner.

HAN: All right! Up! Move! Come on! Quickly!
Quickly, Chewie.

The Rebel troops herd the generator controllers away from their
panels. Leia glances at one of the screens on the control panel.

LEIA: Han! Hurry! The fleet will be here any
moment.

HAN: Charges!  Come on, come on!

Outside, Threepio watches nervously in the bushes as several more
controllers and stormtroopers run into the bunker, leaving guards
at the door.

THREEPIO: (to Wicket) Oh, my! They'll be captured!

Wicket chatters in Ewok language, and then takes off full steam
into the forest.

THREEPIO: Wa-wait! Wait, come back! Artoo, stay with
me.

Inside the bunker, Han looks up from setting charges as an
Imperial commander enters.

COMMANDER: Freeze! You Rebel scum.

Han and Leia spin, to find dozens of Imperial weapons trained on
them and their cohorts. A poised force of Imperial troops
surround them. Even more pour into the room, roughly disarming
the Rebel contingent. Han, Leia, and Chewie exchange looks.
They're helpless.

EXTERIOR: SPACE - ENDOR, DEATH STAR, REBEL FLEET

The Death Star and its Sanctuary Moon hang distant in space as
the Rebel fleet comes out of hyperspace with an awesome roar. The
Millennium Falcon and several Rebel fighters are at the front as
the space armada bears down on its target.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando flips switches, checks his screen, and speaks into the
radio.

LANDO: All wings report in.

WEDGE: Red Leader standing by.

GRAY LEADER: Gray Leader standing by.

GREEN LEADER: Green Leader standing by.

WEDGE: Lock S-foils in attack positions.

INTERIOR: REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

From the bridge of the Rebel Headquarters Frigate, Admiral Ackbar
watches the fighters massing outside his viewscreen.

ACKBAR: May the Force be with us.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando looks worriedly at his alien copilot, Nien Nunb, who points
to the control panel and talks to Lando.

LANDO: We've got to be able to get some kind of a
reading on that shield, up or down. Well, how could 
they be jamming us if they don't know if we're coming.

Lando shoots a concerned look out at the approaching Death Star
as the implications of what he's just said sink in. He hits a
switch on his comlink.

LANDO: Break off the attack! The shield is still up.

RED LEADER: (VO) I get no reading. Are you sure?

LANDO: Pull up! All craft pull up!

The Falcon turns hard to the left. Out the window the stars and
the Death Star move off right.

EXTERIOR: SPACE - DEATH STAR SHIELD

The Falcon and the fighters of Red Squad veer off desperately to
avoid the unseen wall.

INTERIOR: REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Alarms are screaming and lights flashing as the huge ship changes
course abruptly. Other ships in the fleet shoot by outside as the
armada tries to halt its forward momentum.

ACKBAR: Take evasive action! Green Group, stick close
to holding sector MV-7.

A Mon Calamari controller turns away from his screen and calls
out to Ackbar, quite excited. The Admiral rushes over to the
controller.

CONTROLLER: Admiral, we have enemy ships in sector 47.

On the screen can be seen the moon, Death Star, and the massive
Imperial fleet. Ackbar moves to the comlink.

ACKBAR: It's a trap!

LANDO: (over comlink) Fighters coming in.

There is much excitement on the bridge as the attack begins.

The Millennium Falcon and several squads of Rebel fighters head
into an armada of TIE fighters. The sky explodes as a fierce
dogfight ensues in and around the giant Rebel cruisers.

REBEL PILOT: There's too many of them!

LANDO: Accelerate to attack speed! Draw their fire
away from the cruisers.

WEDGE: Copy, Gold Leader.

The battle continues around the giant cruisers.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR - EMPEROR'S THRONE ROOM

Through the round window behind the Emperor's throne can be seen
the distant flashes of the space battle in progress.

EMPEROR: Come, boy. See for yourself.

The Emperor is sitting in his throne, with Vader standing at his
side. Luke moves to look through a small section of the window.

EMPEROR: From here you will witness the final
destruction of the Alliance, and the end of your 
insignificant Rebellion.

Luke is in torment. He glances at his lightsaber sitting on the
armrest of the throne. The Emperor watches him and smiles,
touches the lightsaber.

EMPEROR: You want this, don't you? The hate is
swelling in you now. Take your Jedi weapon. Use 
it. I am unarmed. Strike me down with it. Give 
in to your anger. With each passing moment, you 
make yourself more my servant.

Vader watches Luke in his agony.

LUKE: No!

EMPEROR: It is unavoidable. It is your destiny. You,
like your father, are now mine!

EXTERIOR: FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Han, Leia, Chewie, and the rest of the strike team are led out of
the bunker by their captors. The surrounding area, deserted
before, is now crowded with two-legged Imperial walkers and
hundreds of Imperial troops. The situation looks hopeless.

STORMTROOPER: All right, move it! I said move it! 
Go on!

From the undergrowth beyond the clearing comes a wild series of
beeps and whistles. And --

THREEPIO: Hello! I say, over there! Were you looking
for me?

BUNKER COMMANDER: Bring those two down here!

STORMTROOPER: Let's go!

Artoo and Threepio are standing near one of the big trees. As six
Imperial stormtroopers rush over to take them captive, the two
droids duck out of sight behind the tree.

THREEPIO: Well, they're on their way. Artoo, are you
sure this was a good idea?

STORMTROOPER: Freeze! Don't move!

THREEPIO: We surrender.

The stormtroopers come around the tree and find the two droids
waiting quietly to be taken. As the Imperial troops move to do
that, however, a band of Ewoks drops down from above and
overpowers them.

THREEPIO: Ohhh! Stand back, Artoo.

In a nearby tree, an Ewok raises a horn to his lips and sounds
the EWOK ATTACK CALL. All hell breaks loose as hundreds of Ewoks
throw their fuzzy bodies into the fray against the assembled
stormtroopers and their awesome two-legged walkers.

Biker scouts dart about blasting Ewoks, only to be crushed by a
volley of rocks tossed by Ewoks from the trees above.

In the confusion of the battle, Han and Leia break away and dive
for the cover of the bunker door as explosions erupt around them.
Han goes to the bunker door control panel.

LEIA: The code's changed. We need Artoo!

HAN: Here's the terminal.

LEIA: (into comlink) Artoo, where are you? We need 
you at the bunker right away.

Artoo and Threepio are hiding behind a log as the battle rages
around them. Suddenly the stubby little astrodroid lets out a
series of whistles and shoots off across the battlefield.
Threepio, panicked, runs after him.

THREEPIO: Going? What do you mean, you're going. But--
but going where, Artoo? No, what! Artoo! Oh, this is no 
time for heroics. Come back!

Biker scouts race around and over the two droids, blasting away
at the little Ewoks as the furries scurry for cover.

A group of Ewoks have moved a primitive catapult into position.
They fire off a large boulder that hits one of the walkers. The
walker turns and heads for the catapult, blasting away with both
guns. The Ewoks abandon their weapons and flee in all directions.
Just as the walker moves in to stomp the catapult, Ewoks drop
vines restraining two huge logs that swing down and smash the
walker's head flat.

A line of Ewoks hang desperately to a vine that is hooked to a
walker's foot. As the walker moves along, the fuzzy creatures are
dragged behind.

Two speeder bikes chase Ewoks through the underbrush. As the
scouts round a tree, they are knocked off their bikes by a vine
tied between two trees.

EXTERIOR: SPACE

The Falcon and other Rebel fighters are engaged in a ferocious
combat with Imperial TIE fighters, the battle raging around the
cruisers of the Rebel armada.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando is in radio communication with the pilots of the other
Rebel squads.

LANDO: Watch yourself, Wedge! Three from above!

WEDGE: Red Three, Red Two, pull in!

RED TWO: Got it!

RED THREE: Three of them coming in, twenty degrees!

WEDGE: Cut to the left! I'll take the leader!
They're heading for the medical frigate.

Lando steers the Falcon through a complete flip, as his crew
fires at the TIEs from the belly guns.

NAVIGATOR: Pressure's steady.

The copilot Nien Nunb chatters an observation.

LANDO: Only the fighters are attacking.  I wonder
what those Star Destroyers are waiting for.

EXTERIOR: SPACE - IMPERIAL FLEET

The giant Imperial Star Destroyer waits silently some distance
from the battle. The Emperor's huge Super Star Destroyer rests in
the middle of the fleet.

INTERIOR: SUPER STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Admiral Piett and two fleet commanders watch the battle at the
huge window of the Super Star Destroyer bridge.

COMMANDER: We're in attack position now, sir.

PIETT: Hold here.

COMMANDER: We're not going to attack?

PIETT: I have my orders from the Emperor himself. He
has something special planned for them. We only need 
to keep them from escaping.

INTERIOR: EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

The Emperor, Vader, and a horrified Luke watch the aerial battle
fireworks out the window and on the viewscreens. Another Rebel
ship explodes against the protective shield.

EMPEROR: As you can see, my young apprentice, your
friends have failed. Now witness the firepower of 
this fully armed and operational battle station. 
(into comlink) Fire at will, Commander.

Luke, in shock, looks out across the surface of the Death Star to
the Rebel fleet beyond.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Controllers pull back on several switches. Commander Jerjerrod
stands over them.

JERJERROD: Fire!

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR - BLAST CHAMBER

A button is pressed, which switches on a panel of lights.

A hooded Imperial soldier reaches overhead and pulls a lever. A
huge beam of light emanates from a long shaft. Two stormtroopers
stand to one side at a control panel.

EXTERIOR: DEATH STAR

The giant laser dish on the completed half of the Death Star
begins to glow; Then a powerful beams shoots out toward the
aerial battle.

EXTERIOR: SPACE - AIR BATTLE

The air is thick with giant ships. In among them, Rebel X-wings
dogfight with Imperial TIE fighters. Now an enormous Rebel
cruiser is hit by the Death Star beam and is blown to dust.

The Millennium Falcon roars over CAMERA, followed closely by
several TIE fighters.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

The ship is buffeted by the tremendous explosion of the Rebel
cruiser. Lando and his copilot are stunned by the sight of the
Death Star firepower.

LANDO: That blast came from the Death Star! That
thing's operational! (into comlink) Home One, this 
is Gold Leader.

INTERIOR: REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Ackbar stands amid the confusion on the wide bridge and speaks
into the comlink.

ACKBAR: We saw it. All craft prepare to retreat.

LANDO: They won't get another chance at this,
Admiral.

ACKBAR: We have no choice, General Calrissian. Our
cruisers can't repel firepower of that magnitude.

LANDO: Han will have that shield down. We've got to
give him more time.

EXTERIOR: FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Artoo and Threepio make it to the door, as Han and Leia provide
cover fire.

THREEPIO: We're coming!

HAN: Come on! Come on!

THREEPIO: Oh, Artoo, hurry!

The little droid moves to the terminal and plugs in his computer
arm. A large explosion hits near Artoo, knocking him head over
heels, finally landing on his feet. The stubby astrodroid's
head is spinning and smoldering. Suddenly there is a loud
SPROOING and Han and Leia turn around to see Artoo with all his
compartment doors open, and all of his appendages sticking out;
water and smoke spurt out of the nozzles in his body. Han rushes
to the terminal, as Threepio rushes to his wounded companion.

THREEPIO: My goodness! Artoo, why did you have to be so
brave?

HAN: Well, I suppose I could hotwire this thing.

LEIA: I'll cover you.

Ewoks in handmade, primitive hanggliders drop rocks onto the
stormtroopers, dive-bombing their deadly adversaries.  One is hit
in the wing with laser fire and crashes.  A walker lumbers
forward, shooting laser blasts at frantic Ewoks running in all
directions.  Two Ewoks are struck down by laser blasts.  One
tries to awaken his friend, then realizes that he is dead.

EXTERIOR: SPACE - DEATH STAR

The Rebel fleet continues to be picked off, from one side by the
Death Star's deadly beam, from the other by the rampaging
Imperial Star Destroyers.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando steers the Falcon wildly through an obstacle course of
floating giants. He's been yelling into the comlink.

LANDO: (desperately) Yes! I said closer! Move as 
close as you can and engage those Star Destroyers 
at point-blank range.

ACKBAR: At that close range, we won't last long
against those Star Destroyers.

LANDO: We'll last longer then we will against that
Death Star...and we might just take a few of them 
with us.

The Rebel cruisers move very close to the Imperial Star
Destroyers and begin to blast away at point-blank range. Tiny
fighters race across the giant surfaces, against a backdrop of
laser fire.

The control tower of a Star Destroyer is under attack.

REBEL PILOT: She's gonna blow!

Y-WING PILOT: I'm hit!

The damaged Y-wing plummets toward the Star Destroyer, and
crashes into the control tower, exploding.

INTERIOR: EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Out of the window and on the view screens, the Rebel fleet is
being decimated in blinding explosions of light and debris. But
in here there is no sound of battle. The Emperor turns to Luke.

EMPEROR: Your fleet has lost. And your friends on the
Endor moon will not survive. There is no escape, my 
young apprentice. The Alliance will die... as will 
your friends.

Luke's eyes are full of rage. Vader watches him.

EMPEROR: Good. I can feel your anger. I am
defenseless.  Take your weapon! Strike me down with 
all your hatred, and your journey towards the dark 
side will be complete.

Luke can resist no longer. The lightsaber flies into his hand. He
ignites it in an instant and swings at the Emperor. Vader's
lightsaber flashes into view, blocking Luke's blow before it can
reach the Emperor. The two blades spark at contact. Luke turns to
fight his father.

EXTERIOR: FOREST

The battle rages on. Stormtroopers fire on Ewoks with
sophisticated weapons while their furry little adversaries sneak
up behind the Imperial troopers and bash them over the head with
large clubs.

A walker marches through the undergrowth blasting Ewoks as it
goes. An Ewok warrior gives the signal, and a pile of logs is cut
loose. The logs tumble under the walker's feet, causing it to
slip and slide until it finally topples over with a great crash.

A scout bike races past and is lassoed with a heavy vine. The
other end of the vine is tied to a tree, and the bike swings
around in ever-tightening circles until it runs out of rope and
crashes into the trees with a huge explosion.

Chewie swings on a vine to the roof of one of the walkers. Two
Ewoks cling to him. They land with a thud on the top of the
lurching machine, then hang on for dear life. One of the Ewoks
peeks through the window.

WALKER PILOT #1: Look!

PILOT #2: Get him off of there!

The walker pilot opens the hatch to see what's going on. He is
yanked out and tossed overboard before he can scream. The two
Ewoks jump into the cockpit and knock the second pilot
unconscious. The Ewoks are thrown violently as the mighty machine
careens out of control. Outside, Chewie is almost knocked
overboard; he sticks his head into the hatch with a series of
angry barks. The Ewoks are too busy and frightened to listen to
the Wookiee's complaint. Chewie slips inside the walker.

Chewbacca's walker moves through the forest, firing laser blasts
at unsuspecting stormtroopers, and destroying other Imperial
walkers. The Ewoks shout and cheer as the giant machine helps
turn the tide of the battle in their favor.

EXTERIOR: FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Han works furiously at the control panel; wires spark as he
attempts to hotwire the door. He motions to Leia, who is blasting
away at some stormtroopers.

HAN: I think I got it. I got it!

The three wires spark as the connection is made. With a LOUD
WHOOSH, a second blast door crashes down in front of the first.

Han frowns and turns back to the wires again. Leia exchanges
shots with stormtroopers in the bushes, then suddenly cries out
in pain, her shoulder hit by a laser blast.

THREEPIO: Oh, Princess Leia, are you all right?

HAN: Let's see.

LEIA: It's not bad.

STORMTROOPER: (OS) Freeze!

They freeze.

THREEPIO: Oh, dear.

STORMTROOPER: Don't move!

Leia holds her laser gun ready, behind Han, out of view of the
two stormtroopers moving toward them. Han and Leia's eyes lock;
the moment seems suspended in time.

HAN: I love you.

Another shared look between them, as she smiles up at Han.

LEIA: I know.

STORMTROOPER: Hands up! Stand up!

Han stands up slowly and turns, revealing the gun in Leia's hand.
She disposes of the stormtroopers in a flash. As Han turns back
toward Leia, he looks up to see a giant walker approach and stand
before him, its deadly weapons aimed right at him.

HAN: (to Leia) Stay back.

The hatch on top of the walker opens and Chewie sticks his head
out and barks triumphantly.

HAN: Chewie!  Get down here!  She's wounded!  No,
wait... I got an idea.

INTERIOR: EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Luke and Vader are engaged in a man-to-man duel of lightsabers
even more vicious then the battle on Bespin. But the young Jedi
has grown stronger in the interim, and now the advantage shifts
to him. Vader is forced back, losing his balance, and is knocked
down the stairs. Luke stands at the top of the stairs, ready to
attack.

EMPEROR: (laughing) Good.  Use your aggressive feelings, 
boy!  Let the hate flow through you.

Luke looks momentarily toward the Emperor, then back to Vader,
and realizes he is using the dark side. He steps back, turns off
his lightsaber, and relaxes, driving the hate from his being.

VADER: Obi-Wan has taught you well.

LUKE: I will not fight you, father.

Vader walks back up the stairs to Luke.

VADER: You are unwise to lower your defenses.

Vader attacks, forcing Luke on the defensive. The young Jedi
leaps in an amazing reverse flip up to the safety of the catwalk
overhead. Vader stands below him.

LUKE: Your thoughts betray you, father. I feel the
good in you... the conflict.

VADER: There is no conflict.

LUKE: You couldn't bring yourself to kill me before, 
and I don't believe you'll destroy me now.

VADER: You underestimate the power of the dark side.
If you will not fight, then you will meet your destiny.

Vader throws the laser sword and it cuts through the supports
holding the catwalk, then returns to Vader's hand. Luke tumbles
to the ground in a shower of sparks and rolls out of sight under
the Emperor's platform. Vader moves to find him.

EMPEROR: (laughs) Good.  Good.

EXTERIOR: SPACE - AIR BATTLE

The two armadas, like their sea-bound ancestors, blast away at
each other in individual point-blank confrontations. A Star
Destroyer explodes. The Rebel victor limps away, its back half
alive with a series of minor explosions. The Rebel cruiser
manages to move in next to a second Star Destroyer before it
explodes completely, taking the Imperial Star Destroyer with it.
The Falcon and several fighters attack one of the larger Imperial
ships.

LANDO: Watch out. Squad at .06.

REBEL PILOT: I'm on it, Gold Leader.

WEDGE: Good shot, Red Two.

LANDO: Now... come on, Han, old buddy. Don't let me
down.

INTERIOR: BUNKER - CONTROL ROOM

Controllers watch the main viewscreen on which a vague figure of
an Imperial walker pilot can be seen. There is a great deal of
static and interference.

HAN/PILOT: (VO) It's over, Commander. The Rebels have 
been routed. They're fleeing into the woods. We need 
reinforcements to continue the pursuit.

The controllers cheer.

CONTROL ROOM COMMANDER: Send three squads to help. 
Open the back door.

SECOND COMMANDER: Yes, sir.

EXTERIOR: FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

As the door to the bunker opens and the Imperial troops rush out,
they're surprised to find themselves surrounded by Rebels, their
weapons pointed at them. Ewoks holding bows and arrows appear on
the roof of the bunker. The Imperial troops throw down their guns
as Han and Chewie rush inside the bunker with explosive charges.

INTERIOR: BUNKER - CONTROL ROOM

Han, Chewie, and several troops rush into the control room and
plant explosive charges on the control panels and rush out.

HAN: Throw me another charge.

INTERIOR: EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Vader stalks the low-ceilinged area on the level below the
throne, searching for Luke in the semi-darkness, his lightsaber
held ready.

VADER: You cannot hide forever, Luke.

LUKE: I will not fight you.

VADER: Give yourself to the dark side. It is the only 
way you can save your friends. Yes, your thoughts betray 
you. Your feelings for them are strong. Especially for...

Vader stops and senses something. Luke shuts his eyes tightly, in
anguish.

VADER: Sister! So...you have a twin sister. Your feelings 
have now betrayed her, too. Obi-Wan was wise to hide her 
from me. Now his failure is complete. If you will not turn 
to the dark side, then perhaps she will.

LUKE: Never-r-r!

Luke ignites his lightsaber and screams in anger, rushing at his
father with a frenzy we have not seen before. Sparks fly as Luke
and Vader fight in the cramped area. Luke's hatred forces Vader
to retreat out of the low area and across a bridge overlooking a
vast elevator shaft. Each stroke of Luke's sword drives his
father further toward defeat.

The Dark Lord is knocked to his knees, and as he raises his sword
to block another onslaught, Luke slashes Vader's right hand off
at the wrist, causing metal and electronic parts to fly from the
mechanical stump. Vader's sword clatters uselessly away, over the
edge of the platform and into the bottomless shaft below. Luke
moves over Vader and holds the blade of his sword to the Dark
Lord's throat. The Emperor watches with uncontrollable, pleased
agitation.

EMPEROR: Good! Your hate has made you powerful. Now,
fulfill your destiny and take your father's place at 
my side!

Luke looks at his father's mechanical hand, then to his own
mechanical, black-gloved hand, and realizes how much he is
becoming like his father. He makes the decision for which he
has spent a lifetime in preparation. Luke steps back and hurls
his lightsaber away.

LUKE: Never! I'll never turn to the dark side. You've 
failed, Your Highness. I am a Jedi, like my father 
before me.

The Emperor's glee turns to rage.

EMPEROR: So be it...Jedi.

EXTERIOR: FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Han and several of the fighters run out of the bunker and race
across the clearing.

HAN: Move! Move!

A shock wave knocks them flat as the bunker explodes, followed by
a spectacular display as the huge shield-generator radar dish
explodes along with the bunker.

INTERIOR: REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Ackbar, sitting in his control chair, speaks into the radio.

ACKBAR: The shield is down! Commence attack on the
Death Star's main reactor.

LANDO: We're on our way. Red Group, Gold Group, all
fighters follow me. (laughs) Told you they'd do it!

The Falcon, followed by several smaller Rebel fighters, heads
toward the unfinished superstructure of the Death Star.

INTERIOR: EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Luke stands still, as the Emperor reaches the bottom of the
stairs. The Emperor's laughter has turned to anger. He raises his
arms toward Luke.

EMPEROR: If you will not be turned, you will be
destroyed.

Blinding bolts of energy, evil lightning, shoot from the
Emperor's hands at Luke. Even in his surprise, the young Jedi
tries to use the Force to deflect them. At first he is half
successful, but after a moment the bolts of energy are coming
with such speed and power the young Jedi shrinks before them, his
knees buckling. The wounded Vader struggles to his feet, and
moves to stand at his master's side.

EMPEROR: Young fool... only now, at the end, do you
understand.

Luke is almost unconscious beneath the continuing assault of the
Emperor's lightning. He clutches a canister to keep from falling
into the bottomless shaft as the bolts tear through him.

EMPEROR: Your feeble skills are no match for the power
of the dark side. You have paid the price for your lack 
of vision.

Luke writhes on the floor in unbearable pain, reaching weakly up
toward where Vader stands watching.

LUKE: (groans) Father, please. Help me.

Again Vader stands, watching Luke. He looks at his master, the
Emperor, then back to Luke on the floor.

EMPEROR: Now, young Skywalker...you will die.

Although it would not have seemed possible, the outpouring of
bolts from the Emperor's fingers actually increases in intensity,
the sound screaming through the room. Luke's body writhes in
pain.

Vader grabs the Emperor from behind, fighting for control of the
robed figure despite the Dark Lord's weakened body and gravely
weakened arm. The Emperor struggles in his embrace, his bolt-
shooting hands now lifted high, away from Luke. Now the white
lightning arcs back to strike at Vader. He stumbles with his load
as the sparks rain off his helmet and flow down over his black
cape. He holds his evil master high over his head and walks to
the edge of the abyss at the central core of the throne room. With
one final burst of his once awesome strength, Darth Vader hurls
the Emperor's body into the bottomless shaft.

The Emperor's body spins helplessly into the void, arcing as it
falls into the abyss. Finally, when the body is far down the
shaft, it explodes, creating a rush of air through the room.
Vader's cape is whipped by the wind and he staggers, and
collapses toward the bottomless hole. Luke crawls to his father's
side and pulls him away from the edge of the abyss to safety.
Both the young Jedi and the giant warrior are too weak to move.

EXTERIOR/INTERIOR: - SPACE BATTLE - FIGHTER AND DEATH STAR

Rebel fighters follow the Falcon across the surface of the Death
Star to the unfinished portion, where they dive into the super-
structure of the giant battle station, followed by many TIE
fighters.

WEDGE: I'm going in.

LANDO: Here goes nothing.

Three X-wings lead the chase through the ever-narrowing shaft,
followed by the Falcon and four other fighters, plus TIE fighters
who continually fire at the Rebels. Lights reflect off the
pilot's faces as they race through the dark shaft.

LANDO: Now lock onto the strongest power source. It
should be the power generator.

WEDGE: Form up. And stay alert. We could run out of
space real fast.

The fighters and the Falcon race through the tunnel, still
pursued by the TIE fighters. One of the X-wings is hit from
behind and explodes.

LANDO: Split up and head back to the surface. See if
you can get a few of those TIE fighters to follow you.

PILOT: Copy, Gold Leader.

The Rebel ships peel off pursued by three of the TIE's, while
Lando and Wedge continue through the main tunnel. It narrows, and
the Falcon scrapes the side dangerously. Two other TIE fighters
continue to blast away at them.

LANDO: That was too close.

Nien Nunb agrees. The battle between the Rebel and Imperial fleet
rages on. Several cruisers fire at the giant Super Star
Destroyer.

INTERIOR: REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

ACKBAR: We've got to give those fighters more time.
Concentrate all fire on that Super Star Destroyer.

X-wings pilots head across the surface of the huge battleship.

INTERIOR: VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Admiral Piett and a commander stand at the window, looking out to
the battle. They look concerned.

CONTROLLER: Sir, we've lost our bridge deflector 
shield.

PIETT: Intensify the forward batteries. I don't want
anything to get through.

The commander is looking out of the window where a damaged Rebel
fighter is out of control and heading directly toward the bridge.

PIETT: Intensify forward firepower!

COMMANDER: It's too late!

The Rebel pilot screams as his ship hits the Star Destroyer,
causing a huge explosion. The giant battle ship loses control,
crashes into the Death Star, and explodes.

INTERIOR: REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

There is excitement on the bridge as the battle rages on all
sides. They cheer as the giant Star Destroyer blows up.

INTERIOR: DEATH STAR - MAIN DOCKING BAY

Chaos. For the first time, the Death Star is rocked by explosions
as the Rebel fleet, no longer backed against a wall, zooms over,
unloading a heavy barrage. Imperial troops run in all directions,
confused and desperate to escape.

In the midst of this uproar, Luke is trying to carry the enormous
deadweight of his father's weakening body toward an Imperial
shuttle. Finally, Luke collapses from the strain. The explosions
grow louder as Vader draws him closer.

VADER: (a whisper) Luke, help me take this mask off.

LUKE: But you'll die.

VADER: Nothing can stop that now. Just for once... 
let me look on you with my own eyes.

Slowly, hesitantly, Luke removes the mask from his father's face.
There beneath the scars is an elderly man. His eyes do not focus.
But the dying man smiles at the sight before him.

ANAKIN: (very weak) Now... go, my son. Leave me.

LUKE: No. You're coming with me. I can't leave you
here. I've got to save you.

ANAKIN: You already have, Luke. You were right about
me. Tell your sister... you were right.

LUKE: Father... I won't leave you.

Darth Vader, Anakin Skywalker... Luke's father, dies.

A huge explosion rocks the docking bay. Slowly, Luke rises and,
half carrying, half dragging the body of his father, stumbles
toward a shuttle.

EXTERIOR: DEATH STAR

The Millennium Falcon leads a swerving bomb run through the
immense superstructure of the half-built Death Star. The Rebel
Star Cruisers outside continually bombard the huge station. And
each direct hit is answered by resonating, chain-reaction
explosions within the station itself.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT AND GUN PORTS

Lando's crew fires away at the pursuing TIE fighters as the
dashing Baron of Bespin and his alien copilot home in on the main
reactor shaft. It is awesome. A lone X-wing is just in front of
the Falcon.

WEDGE: There it is!

LANDO: All right, Wedge. Go for the power regulator
on the north tower.

WEDGE: Copy, Gold Leader. I'm already on my way out.

The X-wing heads for the top of the huge reactor and fires
several proton torpedoes at the power regulator, causing a series
of small explosions.

The Falcon heads for the main reactor, and when it is dangerously
close, Lando fires the missiles, which shoot out of the Falcon
with a powerful roar, and hit directly at the center of the main
reactor.

He maneuvers the Falcon out of the winding superstructure just
ahead of the continuing chain of explosions.

INTERIOR: REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Ackbar and other Mon Calamari lean on the railing of the bridge,
watching the large screen showing the Death Star in the main
briefing room.

ACKBAR: Move the fleet away from the Death Star.

EXTERIOR: DEATH STAR

An Imperial shuttle, with Luke alone in the cockpit, rockets out
of the main docking bay as that entire section of the Death Star
is blown away. But as Luke pilots toward the safety of the
Sanctuary moon, his thoughts - enhanced by the Force - turn to
his friends aboard the Millennium Falcon.

The Falcon flies at top speed, with a single X-wing as escort,
over the endless surface of the Death Star. A series of
explosions within the superstructure follow, then swiftly
overtake the small craft as it races for an exit.

INTERIOR: MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando turns to Nien Nunb and shakes his head.

LANDO: (into comlink) Wedge, I don't think we're going 
to make it.

WEDGE: (VO) You'll make it. Just follow me Gold Leader.

LANDO: (to himself) I promised to return his ship 
without a scratch... I sure hope that old pirate
forgives me. This is gonna be close.

EXTERIOR: DEATH STAR

An X-wing, piloted by Wedge Antilles, races out of the exploding
superstructure and whizzes toward the Sanctuary Moon. But the
Millennium Falcon is not fast enough as it explodes with the
Death Star in a supernova of glory.

EXTERIOR: ENDOR FOREST

Han and Leia, Chewie, the droids, the Rebel troops, and the Ewoks
all look to the sky as the Death Star reveals itself in a final
flash of self-destruction. All except Han cheer, as the thirty-
year-old starship pilot feels a deep personal loss.

HAN: (whispering to himself) Lando...

THREEPIO: (misinterpreting Han's reference) They did it!

Han looks down from the sky to Leia, a look of sorrow and regret
on his face. He knows he will never see the Falcon and Lando
again. His thoughts turn to Leia, as she continues to look 
at the sky as though listening for a silent voice.

HAN: I'm sure Luke wasn't on that thing when it blew.

LEIA: He wasn't. I can feel it.

HAN: You love him, don't you?

Leia smiles, puzzled.

LEIA: Yes.

HAN: All right. I understand. Fine. When he comes back, I won't
get in the way.

She realizes his misunderstanding.

LEIA: Oh. No, it's not like that at all. He's my brother.

Han is stunned by this news. She smiles, and they embrace.

EXTERIOR: ENDOR FOREST - NIGHT

Luke sets a torch to the logs stacked under a funeral pyre where
his father's armor lies; black mask, helmet and cape. He stands, 
watching sadly, as the flames leap higher to consume what's left
of Vader.

In the sky above, fireworks explode and Rebel fighters zoom above
the forest.

EXTERIOR: CLOUD CITY - SUNSET

Fireworks explode above the city as searchlights pan the sky. A
twin-pod cloud car zooms in above the festivities.

EXTERIOR: TATOOINE - DAY

A skyhopper weaves around buildings as confetti falls over the city,
awash in celebration.

EXTERIOR: CORUSCANT PLAZA - NIGHT

Confetti falls on the city as hundreds of citizens celebrate. An
airspeeder flies overhead. Fireworks explode in the full-moon sky.

EXTERIOR: EWOK VILLAGE SQUARE - NIGHT

A huge bonfire is the centerpiece of a wild celebration. Rebels
and Ewoks rejoice in the warm glow of firelight, drums beating,
singing, dancing, and laughing in the communal language of
victory and liberation.

Lando runs in and is enthusiastically hugged by Han and Chewie.
Then, finally, Luke arrives and the friends rush to greet and
embrace him. They stand close, this hardy group, taking comfort
in each other's touch, together to the end.

Rebels and Ewoks join together in dancing and celebration. The
original group of adventurers watch from the sidelines. Only Luke
seems distracted, alone in their midsts, his thoughts elsewhere.

He looks off to the side and sees three shimmering, smiling
figures at the edge of the shadows: Ben Kenobi, Yoda, and Anakin
Skywalker.

DISOLVE TO:  
 
EXTERIOR: GALAXY -- SPACE
 
END CREDITS OVER STARS

THE END




Directed by
RICHARD MARQUAND

Produced by
HOWARD KAZANJIAN

Screenplay by
LAWRENCE KASDAN and GEORGE LUCAS

Story by
GEORGE LUCAS

Executive Producer
GEORGE LUCAS

Co-Producers
ROBERT WATTS, JIM BLOOM

Production Designer
NORMAN REYNOLDS

Director of Photography
ALAN HUME, B.S.C

Edited by
SEAN BARTON, MARCIA LUCAS, DUWAYNE DUNHAM

Visual Effects
RICHARD EDLUND, A.S.C, DENNIS MUREN, KEN RALSTON

Costume Designers
AGGIE GUERARD RODGERS, NILO RODIS-JAMERO

Mechanical Effects Supervision
KIT WEST

Make-Up and Creature Design
PHIL TIPPETT, STUART FREEBORN

Sound Design
BEN BURTT

Music by
JOHN WILLIAMS


CAST

Luke Skywalker..............................................MARK HAMILL
Han Solo..................................................HARRISON FORD
Princess Leia.............................................CARRIE FISHER
Lando Calrissian.....................................BILLY DEE WILLIAMS
See-Theepio (C-3PO).....................................ANTHONY DANIELS
Chewbacca..................................................PETER MAYHEW
Anakin Skywalker.........................................SEBASTIAN SHAW
The Emperor Palpatine.....................................IAN McDIARMID
Yoda...........................................................FRANK OZ
Lord Darth Vader...........................................DAVID PROWSE
Voice of Lord Darth Vader..............................JAMES EARL JONES
Ben (Obi-Wan) Kenobi......................................ALEC GUINNESS

SUPPORTING CAST

Artoo-Detoo (R2-D2).........................................KENNY BAKER
Moff Jerjerrod.......................................MICHAEL PENNINGTON
Admiral Piett............................................KENNETH COLLEY
Bib Fortuna..............................................MICHAEL CARTER
Wedge Antilies.............................................DENIS LAWSON
Admiral Ackbar.................................................TIM ROSE
General Madine...........................................DERMOT CROWLEY
Mon Mothma...........................................CAROLINE BLAKISTON
Wicket....................................................WARWICK DAVIS
Paploo......................................................KENNY BAKER
Boba Fett................................................JEREMY BULLOCH
Oola........................................................FEMI TAYLOR
Sy Snootles..............................................ANNIE ARBOGAST
Fat Dancer.............................................CLAIRE DAVENPORT
Teebo.......................................................JACK PURVIS
Logray.....................................................MIKE EDMONDS
Chief Chirpa.................................................JANE BUSBY
Ewok Warrior...............................................MALCOM DIXON
Ewok Warrior..............................................MIKE COTTRELL
Nicki.......................................................NICKI READE
Stardestroyer Controller No. 1.............................ADAM BAREHAM
Stardestroyer Controller No. 2..........................JONATHAN OLIVER
Stardestroyer Captain No. 1..................................PIP MILLER
Stardestroyer Captain No. 2.................................TOM MANNION

Jabba Puppeteers
TOBY PHILPOTT, MIKE EDMONDS,
DAVID BARCLAY

Puppeteers
MICHAEL McCORMICK, DEEP ROY,
SIMON WILLIAMSON, HUGH SPIRIT,
SWIM LEE, MICHAEL QUINN, RICHARD ROBINSON

Set Decorators
MICHAEL FORD, HARRY LANGE

Conceptual Artist
RALPH McQUARRIE

Art Directors
FRED HOLE, JAMES SCHOPPE

Assistant Art Directors
MICHAEL LAMONT, JOHN FENNER, RICHARD DAWKING

Assistant Art Decorator
SHARON CARTWRIGHT

Set Dresser
DOUG VON KOSS

Assistant Set Dresser
CHUCK RAY

Constuction Manager
BILL WELCH

Assistant Construction Manager
ALAN BOOTH

Construction Supervisor
ROGER IRVIN

General Foreman
BILL IIAMS

Construction Foreman
GREG CALLAS, GUY CLAUSE, DOUG ELLIOT, STAN WAKASHIGE

Laborer Foremen
GENE FUKUZAWA, DON JOHNSON

Paint Foreman
GARY CLARK

Standby Painter
GIOVANNI FERRARA

Sketch Artist
ROY CARNON

Scenic Artist
TED MICHELL

Assistant Scenic Artist
STEVEN SALLYBANKS

Decor and Lettering Artist
BOB WALKER, BRIAN SMITH

Electronic Graphic Consultant
ROB DICKINSON

Set Draftsmen
REG BREAM, MARK BILLERMAN, CHRIS CAMPELL
GEORGE DJURKOVIC, GAVIN BOCQUET, KEVIN PHIPPS

Production Buyers
DAVID LUSBY, IAN GILADJIAN

Constuction Storeman
DAVID MIDDLETON

Art Department Secretary
CAROL REGAN

Location Director of Photography
JIM GLENNON

Additional Photography
JACK LOWIN

Operating Cameramen
ALEC MILLS, TOM LAUGHRIDGE, MIKE BENSON

Focus Puller
MICHAEL FRIFT, CHRIS TANNER

Assistant Cameramen
LEO NAPOLITANO, BOB LA BONGE

Second Assistant Cameramen
SIMON HUME, STEVE TATE, MARTIN KENZIE, MICHAEL GLENNON

Gaffers
MIKE PANTAGES, BOB BREMNER

Aerial Photography
RON GOODMAN, MARGARET HERRON

Helicopter Pilot
MARK WOLFE

Key Grip
DICK DOVA SPAH

Best Boy
JOE CROWLEY

Dolly Grip
CHUNKY HUSE, REG HALL

Matte Photography Consultant
STANLEY SAYER, B.S.C.

Rigging Gaffers
CLARK GARLAND, TOMMY BROWN

Electrician
BILL DREYFUSS

Craft Service
GEORGE MAURICIO

Chief Make-Up Artist
TOM SMITH, GRAHAM FREEBORN

Make-Up Artists
PETER ROBB KING, DICKIE MILLS
KAY FREEBORN, NICK DUDMAN, ALAN BROWNIE

Make-Up Assistants
BOB KEEN, SUE OAKS, CHRISTINE ALLSOPP, DANIEL PARKER
JEREMY HARRIS, TERRI ANDERSON

Make-Up Effects Engineer
BOB BROMLEY

Modellers
MICHAEL OSBORN, JAN STEVENS, CHRISTINE OVERS, RICHARD PADBURY

Chief Hairdresser
PATRICIA McDERMONT

Hairdressers
MIKE LOCKEY, PAUL LE BLANC

Chief Articulation Engineer
STUART ZIFF

Assistant Articulation Engineer
EBEN STROMQUIST

Armature Design
PETER RONZANI

Plastic Designer
RICHARD DAVIS

Sculptural Designers
CHUCK WILEY, JAMES HOWARD

Key Sculptors
DAVE CARSON, TONY McVEY, DAVE SOSALLA,
JUDY ELKINS, DEREK HOWARTH

Cheif Moldmaker
WESLEY SEEDS

Moldmaker
RON YOUNG

Creature Technicians
RANDY DUTRA, KIRK THATCHER, DAN HOWARD, JAMES ISAAC,
BRIAN TURNER, JEANNE LAUREN, RICHARD SPAH JR.,
ETHAN WILEY, RAY HANSON, RODGER SHAW

Creature Consultants
JON BERG, CHRIS WALAS

Production/Creature Co-Ordinator
PATTY BLAU

Latex Foam Lab Supervisor
TOM McLAUGHLIN

Animatronics Engineers
JOHN COPPINGER

Wardrobe Supervisor
RON BECK

Costume Supervisor
MARY ELIZABETH STILL

Wardrobe Mistress
JANET TEBROOKE

Shop Manager
JENNY GREEN

Jeweler
RICHARD MILLER

Wardrode Assistants
PATRICKWHEATLEY, COLIN WILCON, JANET LUCAS, DIANE MURPHY,
MICHAEL JEFFREY, KEITH MORTON, JOHN BIRKINSHAW

Creature Costumers
BARBARA KASSAL, EDWIN PELLIKKA, ANNE POLLAND, ELVIRA ANGELINETTA,
MICK BECKER, CLAUDIA EVERETT, LAURIE RUDD, NANCY SERVIN,
KARRIN KAIN, DERIK HYDE, MAGGIE JOY, PATTE MOON, JANICE GARTIN,
JULIE WOODBRIDGE, BARBARA GILLETT, RITA WAKELY, EILEEN SULLIVAN

Property Master
PETER HANCOCK

Assistant Property Master
CHARLES TORBETT

Property Supervisors
DAN COANGELO, BRIAN LOFTHOUSE

Property
HOLLY WALKER, IVAN VAN PERRE

Propmakers
BILL HARGREAVES, RICHARD PETERS

Master Carpenter
BERT LONG

Master Plasterer
KENNY CLARKE

Master Painter
ERIC SHIRTCLIFFE

Supervising Rigger
RED LAWRENCE

Supervising Stagehabd
EDDIE BURKE

Sail Co-Ordinators
BILL KREYSLER, WARWICK TOMPKINS

Sails Engineering
DERRICK BAYLIS, PEGGY KASHUBA

Production Sound
TONY DAWE, RANDY THOM

Boom Operators
DAVID BATCHELOR, DAVID PARKER

Sound Assistants
SHEP DAWE, JIM MANSON

Audio Engineers
T.M. CHRISTOPHER, KRIS HANDWERK, TOM JOHNSON, BRIAN KELLY,
ROBERT MARTY, SCOTT ROBINSON, DENNIE THORPE, JOHN WATSON

Post-Production Assistants
CATHERINE COOMBS, K.C. HODENFIELD, JAMES KESSLER, SUSAN LEAHY

English Lyrics
JOSEPH WILLIAMS

Huttesse Lyrics
ANNIE ARBOGAST

Ewokese Lyrics
BEN BURTT

Re-Recording Mixers
GARY SUMMER, ROGER SAVAGE, BEN BURTT, RANDY THOM

Music Recording
ERIC TOMLINSON

Orchestrations
HERBERT W. SPENCER

Supervising Music Editor
KENNETH WANNBERG

Re-Recording Engineer
TOMLINSON HOLMAN

Assistant Film Editors
STEVE STARKEY, CONRAD BUFF, PHIL SANDERSON, NICK HOSKER,
DEBRA McDERMOTT, CLIVE HARTLEY

Sound Effects Editors
RICHARD BURROW, TERESA ECKTON, KEN FISHER

Dialogue Editors
LAUREL LADEVICH, CURT SCHULKEY, BONNIE KOEHLER,
VICKIE ROSE SAMPSON

Assistant Sound Editors
CHRIS WEIR, BILL MANN, GLORIA BORDERS, SUZANNE FOX, KATHY RYAN,
NANCY JENKS, MARY HELEN LEASMAN

Production Supervisor
DOUGLAS TWIDDY

Production Executive
ROBERT LATHAM BROWN

Unit Production Manager
MIKI HERMAN

Assistant Production Manager
PATRICA CARR

Associate to Producer
LOUIS G. FRIEDMAN

First Assistant Director/Second Unit Director
DAVID TOMBLIN

Second Assistant Directors
ROY BUTTON, MICHEAL STEELE, CHRIS NEWMAN, RUSSELL LODGE

Production Assistant
IAN BRYCE

Production Co-Ordinator
LATA RYAN

Co-Ordination Assistants
SUNNI KERWIN, GAIL SAMUELSON

Script Supervisor
PAMELA MANN FRANCIS

Location Script Supervisor
BOB FOREST

Stunt Co-Ordinator
GLENN RANDALL

Stunt Arranger
PETER DIAMOND

Casting
MARY SELWAY BUCKLEY

Location Casting
DAVE EMAN, BILL LYTLE

Assistants to Mr. Kazanjian
KATHLEEN HARTNEY ROSS, BETTY SHARP

Assistant to Mr. Bloom
JOHN SYRJAMAKI

Assistant to Mr. Lucas
JANE BAY

Assistant to Mr. Marquand
LEILA KIRKPATRICK

Choreographer
GILLIAN GREGORY

Location Choreographer
WENDY ROGERS

Production Controller
ARTHUR CARROLL

Production Accountant
MARGARET MITCHELL

Production Accountant
COLIN HURREN

Assistant Accountants
SHEALA DANIELL, BARBARA HARLEY, SIAN WILLIAMS, ALEX MATCHAM

Location Accountants
DIANE DANKWARDT, PINKI RAGAN, DICK WRIGHT, SUSAN ROYAL

Transportation Co-Ordinator
GENE SCHWARTZ

Transportation Captains
JOHN FEINBLATT, H. LEE NOBLITT

Studio Transportation Managers
VIC MINAY, MARK LA BONGE

Location Contact
LENNIE FIKE

Still Photographers
ALBERT CLARKE, RALPH NELSON JR.

Unit Publicist
GORDON ARNELL

Assistant Publicist
JUNE BROOM

Marketing
SIDNEY GANIS, SUSAN TREMBLY

Photographic Co-Ordinators
BARB LAKIN, KATHY WIPPERT

Research
DEBORAH FINE

Special Effects Supervisor
ROY ARBOGAST

Special Effect Foreman
WILLIAM DAVID LEE

Special Effects Floor Controller
IAN WINGROVE

Senior Effects Technicians
PETER DAWSON, RODNEY FULLER, NEIL SWAN,
TREVOR NEIGHBOUR, DAVID WATSON

Chief Electronics Technician
RON HONE

Special Effects Technicians
KEN GITTENS, BARRY WHITROD, JOHN HATT, TERRY GLASS,
YVES DE BONO, STEVE LLOYD, ROGER NICHOLS, PAUL KNOWLES

Wire Specialists
BOB HARMAN, STEVE CRAWLEY

Location Special Effects
KEVIN PIKE, MIKE WOOD, DAVID SIMMONS, GARY ZINK, EDDIE SURKIN,
JOHN STIRBER, BRUNO VAN ZEEBROECK, JOHN CHAPOT,
WILLIAM KLINGER JR. DONALD CHADLER

Electrical Engineer
TERRY COX

Effects Co-Ordinator
JOHN BAKER

Effects Secretary
REBECCA WEST


MINIATURE AND OPTICAL EFFECTS UNIT
INDUSTRIAL LIGHT AND MAGIC

Optical Photography Supervisor
BRUCE NICHOLSON

Effects Cameramen
DON DOW, MICHAEL J. McALISTER, BILL NEIL, SCOTT FARRAR,
SELWYN EDDY III, MICHAEL OWENS, ROBERT ELSWIT, RICK FICHTER,
STEWART BARBEE, MARK GREDELL, DAVID HARDBURGER

Assistant Cameramen
PAT SWEENEY, KIM MARKS, ROBERT HILL, RAY GILBERTI, RANDY JOHNSON,
PATRICK McARDLE, PETER DAULTON, BESSIE WILEY, MARYAN EVANS,
TOBY HEIDEL, DAVID FINCHER, PETER ROMANO

Optical Printer Operators
JOHN ELIS, DAVID BERRY, KENNETH SMITH, DONALD CLARK,
MARK VARGO, JAMES LIM

Optical Line-Up
TOM ROSSETER, ED L. JONES, RALPH GORDON, PHILIP BARBERIO,
PEG HUNTER, MARY WALTER, MICHAEL SHANNON

Lab Technicians
TIM GEIDEMAN, DUNCAN MYERS, MICHAEL S. MOORE

Art Directors-Visual Effects
JOE JOHNSTON

Production Illustrator
GEORGE JENSON

Stop Motion Animator
TOM ST. AMAND

Matte Painting Supervisor
MICHAEL PANGRAZIO

Matte Painting Artists
CHRIS EVANS, FRANK ORDAZ

Matte Photography
NEIL KREPELA, CRAIG BARRON

Chief Model Makers
PAUL HUSTON, CHARLES BAILEY, MICHAEL GLENN FULMER, EASE OWYEUNG

Model Makers
WILLIAM MARSHALL, SEAN CASEY, LARRY TAN, BARBARA GALLUCCI,
JEFF MANN, IRA KEELER, BILL BECK, MIKE COCHRANE, BARBARA AFFONSO,
BILL BUTTERFIELD, MARCHI McMAHON, RANDY OTTENBERG, ROBERT BOVILL

Modelshop Supervisors
LORNE PETERSON, STEVE GAWLEY

Animation Supervisor
JAMES KEEFER

Head Effects Animators
GARRY WALLER, KIMBERLY KNOWLTON

Effects Animators
TERRY WINDELL, RENEE HOLT, MIKE LESSA, SAMUEL COMSTOCK, ROB LA DUCA,
ANNICK THERRIEN, SUKI STERN, MARGOT PIPKIN, JOHN ARMSTRONG,
REBECCA PETRULLI, DARRYL STUDBAKER, PHILIP NORWOOD

Supervising Visual Effects Editor
ARTHUR REPOLA

Visual Effects Editors
HOWARD STEIN, PETER AMUNDSON, BILL KIMBERLIN

Assistant Visual Effects Editors
ROBERT CHRISOULIS, MICHAEL GLEASON, JAY IGNASZEWSKI, JOE CLASS,
TERRY PECK, DANIEL CANDIB

General Manager, ILM
TOM SMITH

Production Supervisor
PATRICIA ROSE DUIGNAN

Production Co-Ordinators
WARREN FRANKLIN, LAURIE VERMONT

Administrative Staff
CHRISSE ENGLAND, LAURA KAYSEN, PAULA KARSH, KAREN AYERS,
SONJA PAULSON, KAREN DUBE, ED BREED, LES THALER, MIKE COOPER,
NED GORMAN, RON FODE

Production Assistants
SUSAN FRITZ-MONAHAN, KATHY SHINE, GEOFFREY DeVALOIS

Supervisor-Still Photography
TERRY CHOSTNER

Still Photographers
ROBERTO McGRATH, KERRY MORDQUIST

Electronic System Designers
JERRY JEFFRESS, KRIS BROWN

Electronic Engineers
MIKE MacKENZIE, MARTY BRENNEIS

Computer Graphics
WILLIAM REEVES, TOM DUFF

Equipment Engineering Supervisor
GENE WHITEMAN

Machinists
UDO PAMPEL, CONRAD BONDERSON

Apprentice Machinists
DAVID HANKS, CHRIS RAND

Design Engineer
MIKE BOLLES

Equipment Support Staff
WADE CHILDRESS, MICHAEL J. SMITH, CRISTI McCARTHY, ED TENNLER

Supervising Stage Technician
TED MOEHNKE

Stage Foreman
PATRICK FITZSIMMONS

Stage Technicians
BOB FINLEY III, ED HIRSH, JOHN McLEOD, PETER STOLZ, DAVE CHILDERS,
HAROLD COLE, MERLIN OHM, JOE FULMER, LANCE BRAKETT

Pyrotechnicians
THAINE MORRIS, DAVE PIER

Steadicam Plate Photography
GARRET BROWN

Ultra High Speed Photography
BRUCE HILL PRODUCTIONS

Color Timers
JIM SCHURMANN, BOB HAGANS

Negative Cutter
SUNRISE FILM INC.

Additional Optical Effects
LOOKOUT MOUNTAIN FILMS, PACIFIC TITLE, MONACO FILM LABS,
CALIFORNIA FILM, VISUAL CONCEPTS ENGINEERING, MOVIE MAGIC,
VAN DER VEER PHOTO EFFECTS


Ewoks

MARGO APOSTOCOS, LINDA BOWLEY, RAY ARMSTRONG, PETER BURROUGHS
EILEEN BAKER, DEBBIE CARRINGTON, MICHAEL H. BALHAM, MAUREEN CHARLTON
BOBBIE BELL, WILLIAM COPPEN, PATTY BELL, SADIE CORRIE
ALAN BENNETT, TONY COX, SARAH BENNETT, JOHN CUMMING
PAMELA BETTS, JEAN D'AGOSTINO, DAN BLACKNER, LUIS DE JESUS
DEBBIE DIXON, JOHN LUMMISS, MARGARITA FERNANDEZ, NANCY MACLEAN
PHIL FONDACARO, PETER MANDELL, SAL FONDACARO, CAROLE MORRIS
TONY FRIEL, STACY NICHOLS, DAN FRISHMAN, CHRIS NUNN
JOHN GAVAM, BARBARA O'LAUGHLIN, MICHAEL GILDEN, BRIAN ORENSTIEN
PAUL GRANT, HARRELL PARKER JR., LARS GREEN, JOHN PEDRICK
LYDIA GREEN, APRIL PERKINS, PAM GRIZZ, RONNIE PHILLIPS
ANDREW HERD, KATIE PERVIS, J. J. JACKSON, CAROL READ
GLYNN JONES, NICHOLAS READ, RICHARD JONES, DIANA REYNOLDS
TREVOR JONES, DANIEL RODGERS, KAREN LAY, CHRIS ROMANO
DEAN SHACKENFORD, JOSEPHINE STADDON, KIRAN SHAH, KEVIN THOMPSON
FELIX SILLA, KENDRA WALL, LINDA SPRIGGS, BRIAN WHEELER
GERARLD STADDON, BUTCH WILHELM

Mime Artists
FRANK ANDERSON, AILSA BERK, SEAN CRAWFORD, ANDY. CUNNINGHAM, TIM DRY,
GRAEME HATTRICK, PHIL HERBERT, GERALD HOME, PAUL SPRINGER

Stunt Performers
BOB ANDERSON, DIRK YOHAN BEER, MORC BOYLE, MIKE CASSIDY, TRACY EDDON,
SANDRA GROSS, TED GROSSMAN, FRANK HENSON, LARRY HOLT, BILL HORRIGAN,
ALF JOINT, JULIUS LEFLORE, COLIN SKEAPING, MALCOM WEAVER,
PAUL WESTON, BOB YERKES, DAN ZORMEIER

Thanks to the U.S. Department of Interior Bureau of Land Management
and National Park Service

Photographed in Buttercup Valley, Death Valley, and
Smith River, California and
EMI-Elstree Studios, Borehamwood, England


Cameras and Lenses by Joe Dunton Cameras Ltd.
Aerial Camera System by Wesscam Camera Systems (Europe)
Lighting Equipment and Crew from Lee Electic Ltd.
Production Vehicles Courtesy of GMC Truck and Oldsmobile
Location Service by CinemobileAir Transportation by PAN AM

Re-Recording at Sprocket Systems
Music Recording at Anvil-Abbey Road Studio

Special Visual Effects Produced at Industrial Light and Magic,
Marin County, California

Filmed in Panavision
Recorded in DOLBY STEREO
Color by Rank Film Laboratories
Prints by Deluxe

Original Soundtrack on RSO Records
Novalization from Ballantine Books


Copyright (c)1983 by Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corporation

A LUCASFILM LTD. PRODUCTION

Ownership of this motion picture is protected by copyright and other
applicable laws and any unauthorized duplication, distribution, or
exhibition of this motion picture could result in criminal prosecution
as well as civil liability.